The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Diary of Delia, by Winnifred Eaton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Diary of Delia
       Being a Veracious Chronicle of the Kitchen, with Some Side-Lights on the Parlour

Author: Winnifred Eaton

Illustrator: May Wilson Preston

Release Date: January 25, 2020 [EBook #61238]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DIARY OF DELIA ***




Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, Barry Abrahamsen, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This file was produced from images generously made
available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









    THE DIARY OF DELIA




------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration:

  “‘Dying!’ ses I.”
]


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  The
                             Diary of Delia

               Being a Veracious Chronicle of the Kitchen
                  with Some Side-lights on the Parlour

                                   By
                             ONOTO WATANNA

                Author of “A Japanese Nightingale,” etc.

                             Illustrated by
                           May Wilson Preston


[Illustration]


                                New York
                       Doubleday, Page & Company
                                  1907


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          COPYRIGHT, 1906, BY
                     THE CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY


                       COPYRIGHT, 1906, 1907, BY
                       DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY
                          PUBLISHED, MAY, 1907


ALL RIGHTS RESERVED INCLUDING THAT OF TRANSLATION INTO FOREIGN
LANGUAGES, INCLUDING THE SCANDINAVIAN




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             ILLUSTRATIONS


        “‘Dying!’ ses I.”                                  Frontispiece

                                                            PAGE

        “‘Now remimber’ ses Minnie, ‘no gineral housework     22
          for you.’”

        “‘Very well Delia’ ses she. ‘It’s hard on me ...      36
          so much trouble.’”

        “I tuk a bit of paper from Mr. John’s desk, and I     44
          penned the following warning in plane litters
          and langwidge.”

        “‘Mr. John’ I exclaimed involuntarararily, ‘are       58
          you sun struck. What’s the trubble?’ ses I.”

        “Mr. Wolley cum crorling frum underneath the         114
          ortermobile.”

        “‘Go away John! Go away!’ ses she, ‘you shan’t       134
          open the dure.’”

        “‘But suppose’ ses he, leening a bit nearer, ‘that   146
          the litter was not for you.’”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




    THE DIARY OF DELIA




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           THE DIARY OF DELIA




                               CHAPTER I


I got up at siven. Washed. Dressed. Made me bed. I set the kittle on the
gas stove and then furyissly rung the brikfust bell. The famly begun to
get up about 9. Mr. John was the first to ate. He guv a look sideways at
the appytising eggs befure him and the luvly staming coffee and thin wid
a shuv pooshed thim aside. He tuk up his paper and begun to reed
ignoaring me and the brikfust as if we wus durt. Me mouth being open I
spoke up.

“Won’t you be after ating this morning” says I.

“Its all rite” says he. “Its all rite Delia.”

I lingered hoping to help him a bit. He russelled up the paper the way
he has of doing when provoaked and says in that cam and gintle way he
talks when turribly excited:

“Delia—what are you waiting for?”

“Nothing—says I—but won’t you be ating a bite Mr. Johnny.”

He controlled himsilf wid diffyculty his voyce all the cammer for his
inwurd anger.

Now me girl says he—you attind to your own ating. Never mind me.

I shugged me sholders in the disdainful way I have and walked
kitchen-wurd. I’d jest reeched the swinging door when “Delia!” ses he,
calling very perlitely now.

“Well sir?”

“Will you kindly bring me” ses he “a cup of hot water.”

“Hot water is it?”

“Yep. I’m dying Delia” ses he.

“Dying!” ses I, shocked so that I drapped and broke the china in me
hands.

“Confound you!” ses he, starting up in his seet “Dy-et-ing I said.”

“Its the same thing!” I showted back at him, and I marched out in a
huff.

By and by I heard Miss Claire go into the dining-room and I let her ring
the table bell awile befure ansering. Her payshunce gitting the better
of her sense she pokes her hed into me kitchen. Now I happened to be
standing neerby the dure, wayting for further ivints. Well, as I sed,
out popped Miss Claire’s hed throo the dure which banged against me own,
while me frying-pan wint flying up on hers.

“O! O! O!” crys she.

Her mother come running down the passage in her nitegown her hair
scrooed up in them kid curlers.

“What is the matter?” crys she. Thin she seen the cundition of her
dorter. The eggs had landed on her hed, and the fat run down her face in
streams wid the yokes for company. The mother guv me a shove, and at
that I boorst out in me rarth.

“Its no lady you are” ses I. “The whole boonch of you is bad. Gitting up
at these unairthly ours and bullying the life out of a poor loan hard
working girl.”

Wid that I tuk aff me aprun and throwed it at the madams feet.

“Will you be good enuff” ses I “to pay me me wages, for I’m for going.”

“Delia” ses she in the voyce she spakes whin drissed up fine for the
opery or there’s company for dinner. “Delia” ses she, “Your month is up
on the 24th. You will get nothing till then.”

“Indade” ses I, “Then I’ll set here till the 24th, but divil a bit of
work will I be doing,” and wid that I set down on me chare and faulded
me arms firmly across me brist.

“Delia” ses the lady, “Mr. Wolley will want his chop in a minit. Master
Willie will have fareena and a poched egg. Shedded weet biskits for Miss
Claire——”

“Mummer” ses she, washing her hed over me tubs, “I want
nothing—nothing.”

Just then Mr. James wint into the dyning-roon and rung the bell lowdly.

“Peeches and pancakes” ses Mrs. Wolley coldly.

Miss Claire has her hed washed be this time, and she stands oop, wid it
rolled oop in a towl. She guv me wan look—a cross betwane a shmile and a
frown, and ses she:

“Delia, do you wish _me_ to get brikfust to-day?”

“God forbid, Miss” ses I, and wint to wark.

Miss Claire is horty agin, and she ses wid a cold look at me:

“Very well thin Delia, till the 24th then. Come mother.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER II

                                NEXT DAY


Its a weery world. Here I be, a poor loansome female alone in this crool
city warking for foaks wid lether harts.

“O wirra, wirra, wirra” as me auld mother used to say.

Aroze. Dressed. Washed.

I wint to see me frind Minnie Carnavan last nite and feel better the
day. Ses she:

“Its a fool you be Delia O’Mally. The Idear of you doing all the wark in
a family of 6. Its no more sinse you seem to have than an eediot. Delia
ses she, its the gurls thats been here long thats foolish like yursilf.
They get stook wid wan famly who hangs on to thim for deer life. The new
wans—green from the auld cuntry arent hiring out to do gineral
housewark. Its cooking in a family of 1 or 2 theyre looking for and
getting. Its lite chamberwark or waiting on a table or the like. Theres
never a one so green as to hire out to do the hole wark of a family.
Your auld fashuned and saft” ses she, “Go down to Mack’s on 3rd Ave. Git
a job for a munth or so as capper.”

“And what is that?”

“Well you tak a job” ses Minnie, “but you don’t kape it.”

“And what wud be the sinse of taking it for thin?”

“Why you gump for ivery place you tak Mack gits a fee of $3. You get
harf for fooling thim.”

“Its an onest gurl I am” ses I wid scorn, “and its ashamed I’d be to mix
mesilf in any such mess as that.”

“Well then” ses she “go down to the Alluyance. Its a place where they
get jobs for the rich.”

“And what wud I be doing there?”

“Don’t you mind what I’m after meening? Its the rich ladies who
pathronize them. Its a foine thing indade for thim. The Alluyunce fills
oop there houses wid the sarvants. If a lady walks in modestly asking
swately for a gurl for gineral housewark, they taks the fee of two or
three or maybe five dollars, and thin smilingly infarm her that gineral
housewarkers are an oonown quolity. ‘Tak a cook’ ses Miss Flimflam,
seeted at a desk. ‘But’ ses the lady, luking very thrubbled, ‘a cook
wont do anny other work at all.’”

“Sumtimes they do lite londry wark.” ses Miss Flimflam, yoning perlitely
in her hand.

“Will they clean?”

“Land no!”

“Wate on table?”

“Certainly not.”

“Thin” ses the lady in disthress, “What am I to do? I moost have me wark
dun.”

“Why” ses the clerk, a little more awake, “hire other girls, as the rist
of our pathrons do.”

“Oh” ses the lady. “I suppose” ses she after a moment of deep and
thrubbled thort, “if I get an exthra woman in to clean and wate on table
the cook will wark cheeper?”

“Hm?” ses the lady at the disk. “I big yure pardin?”

“She’d wark cheeper, I sed?”

“Well to be frank, Mrs. Hodge Podge” answers Miss Flimflam at the desk,
“a cooks an expinsive proppysition in these days. Now we have thim all
the way down from $200 a munth to—er—well, you mite git an inexperienced
beginnir for about $30, tho I cant promise.”

“Your fooling Minnie. Shure no cook gits such a forchune” ses I.

“Its thruth I’m telling you. Why I heard the uther day that Mrs.
Vanderfool do be paying her cook $20,000 a year, and whats more the
papers state theres an agytation now on foot among the bizzy club wimmin
to let the poor hard warking girls, whose been impoased upon for
sinturies, yuse the parlor wance a week to see there company in.”

“You don’t say” ses I, “and to think of me drudging for the starving
wage of $20 per month.”

“Well” ses Minnie, “I wont misguide you Delia. $20 is the wages of a
green girl who niver saw a Frinch pertater fryed on airth and who broils
a stake in a sorspan cuvered snug wid water.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER III

                           THE TWENTY-FOURTH


I aroze at the ushil our. Washed. Dressed in me best. Miss Claire cum
into me room brite and airly. Ses she: “O Delia, heres that auld green
skurt of mine you always liked. Your welcame to it.”

“Thanks” ses I, “but I expect to be making sooch grand wages soon, Miss
Claire, I’ll be bying finer skurts than that.” Wid that I pushed the
skurt aside with contemshus tooch.

She got all red and pretty, as she has a habit whin angry, and she put
up her hed hy in the air.

“O well, if that’s the way you feel!” ses she and marched out.

Mr. John cum into me kitchen.

“Delia” ses he “heres a quarter. Now hussle wid me brikfust, will you?”

I took the quarter and flipped it round.

“Mr. Johnny” ses I, “me munth is oop at 7 A.M. this marning. I’m after
waiting for me wages.”

He drew up his brows frowning and wint aff into his mothers room.

A moment later the auld gintleman himsilf cum bloostering out. Its his
ushil custum to get up at 10.

“Whats up! Whats up!” ses he.

“Wheres me chop? Wheres me chop?”

Master Will started in to ball and Mr. James kept ringing the table
bell. Such a house I never seen. Out came the madame in her ushil
nitegown.

“Delia” ses she “didn’t I tell you yesterday I’d decided to guv you
anuther chance.”

“You did mam, but I’m for going now” ses I.

“Go about your wark” ses she, her proud voice becoming a bit narvous in
toan.

“I’m waiting for me wages mam” ses I.

“Delia——” she guv a hasty look about her, thin she spakes in a coaxing
vyce:

“Now Delia, be sinsible. You no we think warlds of you. Now——”

Joost then, Miss Claire looks in, her face still red wid the snub I’m
after giving her about the skurt.

“Muther” ses she, “don’t descind to begging Delia to remane. _Let_ her
go. We can get on famissly widout her.”

“What!” shourts Mr. James, sticking in his hed at the dure, “No cook!
Whats to becum of us. Are we” ses he “to go throo a like nitemare such
as we injured befure the advent of Delia?”

Willie now cum poking _his_ hed in between his daddy’s legs.

“Pleese Delia” ses he “guv me my fareena. _I_ love you, Delia” ses he.

“God love the lamb!” ses I and flew to the stove, me hart going out of
me body to the child.

“Hold!” ses Miss Claire, very loftily, and she cum over to me and tuk
the dubble boyler out of me hand. “Put on yure things” ses she “and go.
At _once_” ses she “at once!”

Then she turned to her brothers and parents.

“Go back to the dining-room” ses she “_I’ll_ get brikfust to-day.”

Mr. James guv a dridful groan, and sloonk off to the dining-room, wid
his hands on his stummick.

“Mamma” ses Miss Claire, “pay off Delia. Youve been composed upon long
enuff” ses she. “Hereafter _I’ll_ manage things.”

And me, the last of 1,700 girls in the same place—for so I larned from
me frind the janitor’s wife—walked out wid me $20 in me pocket.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER IV

              THE FOLLOWING DAY AT MINNIE CARNAVAN’S HOUSE


Aroze at 8:30. Washed—all over. Dressed in me best. Borrowed Minnie’s
hat wid the grand white ostrich fether. Minnie wint along wid me to the
Alluyunce. “For” ses she “its saft you are, mavorneen.”

After paying our fee of $1 we set around thegither wid mebbe 40 uther
unforchnut girls in a room on the sicond flure. “Now remimber” ses
Minnie, “no _gineral_ housewark for you. Its a grand cook you be, or a
foine first-class waitress, or an illigunt chamber-made, or a nurse to a
babby oonderstanding all about bottle feeding. Now raymimber what you
are.”

“I begin to have mis doubts, Minnie” ses I, trimbling inwardly.

“Ah go wan” ses Minnie, wid contimp, and just thin wan of the Miss
Flimflams (for so Minnie had them all named), cum into the room and ses
in a loud voyce:

“A nurse! I’ve a call here for a nurse. Must be first-class. Consumtive.
Wages $10 a week.”

“Tak it!” wispers Minnie, excitedly and she pushed me along.

“Are you a nurse?” arsks Miss Flimflam, looking at me misdoubtfully.

“Well mam” ses I “Its manny a yung wan——”

“O deer!” ses she impayshuntly, “a _trayned_ nurse is what I want. Are
there any trayned nurses here?”

There wint a little pockmarked woman forward.

“What have you dun?” arsks Miss Flimflam.

[Illustration:

  “‘Now remimber,’ ses Minnie, ‘no gineral housework for you.’”
]

“Well deerie” ses the pockmarked lady, “I’ve tinded to invaleeds since I
was so high deerie. Me speshultys obstetery.”

“Obstetery? Whats that?” arsks Miss Flimflam opening oop her eyes wide.

“Why I’m a midwife, to spake voolgarly deerie” ses the pockmarked wan.

“Oh” ses Miss Flimflam, and wint out larfing.

Shed been gone but a minit whin a stout miss Flimflam cums in in a
hurry. She reeds frum a paper in her hand:

“2 lady’s maids, bootler, 3 chamber-mades—cook—in fack all nicessary
sarvants for a big coontry place. Now first of all—a thoruly first-class
cook—er——”

Minnie had pushed me forward and I wint up bashfully befure her.

“Cum along” ses she, and she tuk me down stares into a grate long room,
wid about twinty or thirty ladies sitting in grand drisses on sofies.
She leeds me up to a stout old-yung lady sitting forward on the idge of
wan of the sofies. “This” ses Miss Flimflam in the swatest voyce, “is
Mrs. Regal. Tell her all about yersilf Delia.”

The lady sits a bit further forward and lifts up wan of thim spicticles
on top of a reel gold shtick called in Frinch Lorgons.

“How old are you?” ses she.

“Twinty” ses I.

“——five” puts in Minnie quickly, for she’d cum down wid me.

“Ah 25. How minny yeers have you cooked?”

“Well mam—” I began, whin Minnie put in—“Tin yeers.”

“What wages did you get at your last place?”

“Twinty——” I began.

“Twinty a week” ses Minnie boldly.

The lady looked tarribly startled. “Hoo did you wark for? Lit me see
your riferinces” ses she.

Minnie hands her the boonch of papers shes after bringing along for me,
and the lady looks at them throo her lorgon. Me own riference from Mrs.
Wolley, which Miss Clare handed me proudly as I was stipping out, I also
had handed to the lady, and I’m all oopset and red wid anger at the
pinch on me arm Minnie is after giving me. The lady looks up wid her
eyes frowning.

“Why these riferinces are for 2 differunt girls” ses she.

“Luk at that, wud yer?” ses Minnie, playfully. “Now didnt she after be
giving you _my_ riferences too by mishtake? _This_ is mine” ses she, and
tuk the letter frum Mrs. Wolley frum the lady’s hand.

“Hoom.” Ses the lady, and looks me over frum hed to foot throo her
lorgon.

“Whats your name?” ses she, and refers to the letters.

“Delia” ses I innercently, “Miss Delia O’Malley if you plaze mam.”

She set up stiff. Then she got up and putrified me wid a horty stare.
Then she swipt over to Miss Flimflam, her silk pitticoat swishing behind
her wid anger. Miss Flimflam cum over to me and grabbed me by the arm.
She pushed me tord the stair.

“Minnie” ses I upstares, “its seeries throuble youve got me into now.”

“Shaw!” ses Minnie, “Its dun ivery day. They no it. Delia theres twinty
ladies for ivery wan girl. Your safe from anny blacklist darlint.”

We seen Miss Flimflam cuming in at the door, and me gilty hart misgiving
me, I grabbed Minnie by the arm and we wint out of wan dure as Miss
Flimflam wint in by anuther.

“Delia, its a gump you are” ses Minnie with scorn, “but never mind,
ye’ve dun enuff for to-day. We’ll be back to-morrow.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER V

                             FOLLOWING DAY


Awoke. Arose again at 8:30. Dressed. Washed.

Minnie and I interfiewed the follering ladies in regard to a position.

Mrs. Spunk. She offered me $20 for cooking—2 in family. The wages were
too small. I refused it wid contimt.

Mrs. Drool. $25. cook and londress. Minnie told her londry work wud
spyle me hands.

Mrs. Lambkin—8 in family—Cooking. $30. Minnie sed Id be after waring the
souls of me feet off rooning oop and down for the 8 of thim.

Mrs. Colebin: $30. Cooking and waiting on table. Minnie sed no cook cud
be expicted to wate on table orlso. Me arms wud be after aking wid
passing the hivvy dishes around.

Mrs. Sesick $40. Minnie sed we was above warking for sporting ladies at
any price. Any lady, ses Minnie, who paints her hair and eyes and mouth
and cheeks, and pads oop her natchurall hooman body isnt a lady at all,
but a plane sporting woman.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER VI

                            TWO WEEKS LATER


I wint to the Alluyunce to-day for the first time alone. Minnie sed she
was after being worn out wid kaping me frum accipting the woorthliss
places offered by the pathrons of the Alluyunce. “Ye shud have enuff
spunk yersilf by now” ses she. “Don’t be saft. Raymimber ladies is your
natrel inimies and beests of prey on poor hilpless sarvant girls.”

Miss Flimflam spyed me as soon as I intered, and tuk me by the arm just
as I was going to the room upstares.

“I’m glad” ses she corjully, “youve cum alone. Your frind was a
inkubust” ses she. “Now cum rite along wid me. Theres a swate little
lady wants a girl just like you” ses she, “and shes willing to pay you
well and treet you” ses she, shmiling, “like a lady.”

Wid that she leeds me acrost the room to wan of the sofies, and pushes
out wid her foot wan of thim camp stules for the girls to sit upon.

“Good marning mam” ses I, lifting up me eyes modestly, and then I give
sooch a joomp the dummed stool dubbles up under me and down I cum wid a
boomp on the flure. For there sitting looking at me, very much surprysed
and horty is Miss Claire hersilf. She smiled a bit whin I picked mesilf
up, and ses I:

“Why, miss, the site of your pretty face just about flabbergasted me.
How are you?” ses I.

“Quite well, thank you” ses she, very stiffly.

“And your mother?”

“—er mother is pretty well” ses she.

“Your father.”

“Papa is—er—about the same” ses she.

“Mr. Johnny?”

“Still dy-et-ing, Delia.”

“And Mr. James——”

“James——well, Delia, nun of us are very well. James _ses_ he has
intygischun.”

“And what is that?” I inquires cooryissly

“—er—a sort of pane in the—er—stummick” ses she.

“Is it billy ake yure meening?”

She blushes, and ses:

“I suppose so.”

“Who do be doing the cooking?” I arsks.

“Well—er—_I_ tried. Delia don’t you dare to larf” ses she indignantly.

“Larf!” ses I, “Why Lor bless your hart darlint, I’d more likely be
weeping for the unhappy family.”

She leened tords me, Wid her horchure quite gone, and looking as meek
and swate as a kitten in thrubble.

“Delia” ses she, “Ive had elivin girls in since _you_ left” ses she.

“You poor lamb!”

She puts on that weedling voyce she has whin bothering me to let her
make mussy foodge in me frying pans:

“Delia” ses she, “w-wudnt you like to cum back?”

I shuk me hed. Then she set back, her horchure cuming back agin.

“O well” ses she, “theres hundreds of uther girls.”

“Yes” ses I “the same as the elivin yourve had.”

“Delia” ses she wid pashion “for pity sake do come back. I did thry to
do my best but its like attempting to pleese a family of porkypines
since you left and O! those awful craychures that came after you left.
Why wan of thim” ses she indignantly “was want to tak the soyled table
linen—aven the lace doylies—for dish cloths.”

“My God! miss” ses I “you don’t meen them buties you made yersilf?”

“Yes indade,” ses she turning her face away.

“Miss Claire” ses I.

“Yes Delia” ses she quickly, turning round in a bounce.

“Nothing” ses I, angry wid mesilf for me meekness.

“_Delia_” ses she despritly, “we’ve tuk a place in the cuntry. We _must_
have a girl. Its dredful to think of being widout one. O Delia, _do
please_ cum wid us.”

“No-o—Miss—” ses I a bit tremendulussly.

“I’ll—I’ll—give you that old—er—its not relly old—black taffita jacket
of mine” ses she.

I skuk me hed.

“—and the skurt wid the box plates” ses she “and you can have that
tucked shemysett—you no, the one you do up so luvly.”

“No Miss Claire” ses I firmly, getting up. “I’m for uther wark than
gineral housewark.” She got up also, and her voyce sounds a bit shakey.

“Very well Delia” ses she. “Its hard on me——so much trubble——” Thin her
blue eyes run over, and she walked away, wiping thim wid her
handkychiff. I seen her go out the dure. I filt a sinking at me hart.
Minnie Carnavan was forgotten, and like the gump she ses I am I made a
grand dash fur the dure, wid all the Miss Flimflams of the Alluyunce,
and the ladies thimsilves gaping after me in horrow. I seen Miss Claire
half a block away, and I run after her puffing:

“Miss Claire! Darlint! Miss Claire!” I called after her. She turned
about and guve me wan look. Then she made a like grand dash as mesilf.
Her parrysol flew out of her hand, also her rist bag.

[Illustration:

  “‘Very well, Delia,’ ses she. ‘It’s hard on me ...
  so much trouble!’”
]

“O Delia—you _duck_” ses she, and kissed me wid a smack, hugging and
squazing me manewile.

There cum three yung doods marching down the Avenoo, and as Miss Claire
taks me in her arms the bauld yung chaps stud still and looked at us and
shmiled. Thin one bint down and keerfully picked up the parrysol and
wiped it wid the sleeve of his foine gray coat. As me and Miss Claire
extrycate ourselves he offers it to her wid a bow. She toorned red as a
peeney and her bloo eyes guv one luk up at the dood, then drapped
demoorly:

“Thanks” ses she, “Thanks agin” ses she, as he likewise returns her
rist-bag. He lifted up his hat, waited a bit for more thanks, and thin
marched aff, shmiling like his face wud bust. _She_ smiles too, and ses
I, boorsting:

“A roomance, Miss Claire! Be all the saints in hivin and airth, ye’ve
luked into the eyes of your hoosband.”

“Nonsense” ses she, laffing, “you’re the same old silly sintimental
Delia. Cum home deer.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER VII

                            TWO WEEKS LATER.


Awoke, aroze, washed, dressed, made me bed. Spint the bitter part of a
our or more trying to make that dummed stove burn. Its a wild wilderniss
of a place is this and its hard indade for a pure loansum innercent
female to bare the silence of the atmust-fear. Whin Miss Claire a spoke
of the country I had thort of Asbry Park or Coney Island and such like
sinsible places, but indade theres no bordwalk here at all at all and
the only kinds of bands and orkistrys is in the trees. Wirra, wirra,
wirra! The kitchens in the bastement and the dining-room a flure above.
I shuk me hed over this contrivance whin I first seen it, but Miss
Claire ses very swately:

“Now doant you be arfter wurrying about that” ses she “fur theres a dumm
waiter in the butlers pantry.”

Wid that she showed me a contrapshon in the wall, and wint to work
pulling at the ropes.

“Dumm!” ses I, shouting wid me rarth, “Is it dumm you call the dumm
thing. My God, Miss,” ses I “Its noysy enuff to waken the deff.”

“Nites enuff” ses I me milincoly hivvy on me chist, “it’ll be all nites
now for me Miss Claire.”

“You Goose!” ses she, “I don’t meen _that_ kind of Nite, but—but—you
know—a grate handsome fellar of a Nite” ses she.

“Is it a _bow_ ye’re maning?” I arsks sarcarskullully.

“Yes Delia dear.”

“And sorrer a Nite of that kind will I get Miss” ses I moanfully.

She opened her blue eyes big, and shuk her hed mysteerissly.

“Its in the cuntry they abownd” ses she.

“And lit them cum abownding” ses I snorting, “Its a foine gintlemanly
sort” ses I “wud abound into the prisince of a loidy. If it’s oanly the
bounding kind ye’re haveing here, Miss Claire, theyd bitter kape their
distance frum me kitchen.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER VIII

                            A FEW DAYS LATER


Awoke—aroze—washed—dressed—made me bed—Imtied me slops.

I tuk a bit of paper from Mr. John’s desk, and I penned the follering
warning in plane litters and langwidge:


                            BRIKFUST SARVED
                              AT 8 OANLEY
                              NO BRIKFUST
                              SARVED LATER


This I taxed artiskully upon the dining-room door—facing all eyes.

Mr. John—ating his loan cup of hot water looks up. Hes a gintle spaking
gintleman in contrarst to his bruther James. The rayson of this Mr.
Wolley explayned to me wanse was that Mr. John is an eediotor wile Mr.
James is a bawld voiced orthor, spaking, ses Mr. Wolley, wid the orful
tung of the muck raker. Well Mr. John looks up gintly and fidgets his
paper and ses mildly:

“Er——Delia—er——”

“Well?” ses I, fite in me toans.

“Another cup of hot water if you plase” ses he.

He hild up the cup befure his eyes suspishussly.

“—er Delia” ses he, making an effet to mollyfy me timper. “How do you
like it here” ses he.

“Like it! My God its a loan wilderniss of a place, sor,” ses I.

“Shaw!” ses he, “Why theeres forty-two families on the Poynt.”

“The Poynt?”

[Illustration:

  “I tuk a bit of paper from Mr. John’s desk, and I penned the following
    warning in plane litters and langwidge.”
]

“Yes. They call this neck of land the Poynt” ses he “I suppose becorse
its just a poynt of land running into the Sound.”

“Its a bloont poynt” ses I.

“It is” ses he, “but down at the ind of it, there _is_ a very fine poynt
of land. Me brother waggushly corls it ‘Rogues Poynt’” ses he.

“And why sor?”

“Haw, haw!” ses he, larfing into his napkin.

Mr. James cum sontering in joost thin in tinnis pants. He tramped acrost
me imacklate floor, banged out a chare and doomped himself into it.

“Me brikfust in a hurry Delia” ses he. “Whats the joke Johnny” ses he to
his larfing brother.

“I was telling Delia the name ye’ve given the Poynt—Rogues Poynt.”

“Hum!” ses Mr. James, ating amorosly on a grape froot. “Its like this
Delia” ses he, guving me a seeriess look, “The 2 show places on the ind
of the Poynt are occipied respictably by an Oil magnut and a Insurince
Prissydint.”

“And be they rogues?” asks I innercently.

“Dammed raskils” ses Mr. James sollemly.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER IX

                              ANOTHER DAY


Aroze. Got up. Dressed. Made me bed. Imtied me slops.

“I want you all to lissen to me” ses Miss Claire, adrissing the
assimbled family in the dining-room. “Now” ses she, “if I’m to be
housekaper and we cant afford but wan girl and the works altogether too
hevvy for Delia alone and shell be laving us if——”

“Sh!” says her mother, “spake lower. Shes in the bootlers pantry, making
the salad.

“Nonsinse” ses Mr. James, “shes at the keyhole lissening.”

“Well, but do lissen all,” airges Miss Claire. “Iverybody” ses she, “has
got to do his indivijool share of work. The lons must be cut. A garden
must be planted. Frish vegitables are absolootely nicissiry. James” ses
she swately, “_You_ can cut the lons.”

“Lons!” cryes he in thoondering toans. “I cut lons! Why me deer sister
its aginst me most artistick instink” ses he. “Its wan of me firm and
uncontradictible opinyons that lons shud remane uncut. Why annyone can
have _cut_ lons. Luk at the places around us, widout an ixcipshun the
lons are cut slick and smooth as a yooths chin. I tell you sister mine”
ses he “its more artistick to let your grass grow long.”

“Nonsinse” ses Miss Claire.

Here Mr. John tuk up the coodgills for his sister.

“Unkemp lons” ses he, “are artistick on the same principle as the ass is
a boheemyun who smoaks and drinks in out of way outlandish joynts and
has an inborn prejydiss aginst a manicar parlor. ‘Dirty nales’ ses he,
in the like toan of me brother ‘is artistick.’ Jimmy, boy, explane the
artistick sinse of uncut lons?”

“Deny it if you can” shouted Mr. James, thoomping on the table “I
challinge you. Do you mane to assert that the fat broaker who kapes his
lons and drives clane as a well swipt parlor has the same artistick
sinse as the chap who lets his grarss grow gracefully aloft kissing the
gintle seffers which swape the jewey——”

Here I heard the contemshus russel of Mr. John’s paper.

“Do be sinsible Jimmy” ses Mrs. Wolley. “Claire is quite right. The lons
must be cut. If we don’t cut them nobody’ll call on us. We’ll be marked
and shunned in this community.”

Here both Mr. James and John assayed to spake at wanse, the latter
aisily being drowned out by the thoonder toans of the hedstrung orthor.

“Mother!” ses he “I’m ashamed of you. Can I beleeve me eers. Is it me
own mother—the woman who gave me berth spaking? Do you achooly mane that
you are inspired wid a dred that these essenshilly vulger fatheaded
raskilly rich nayburs of ours may not call on us? What!” ses he,
drowning the interrupting voyce of Mr. John, “Do you _desire_ there
acquaytinse?”

“Me brotyer” ses Mr. John gintly, “finds his vocatshun rooning from his
finger tips to his tung. To him the mere fack of being rich is to be
likewise a fool and nave.”

“I claim” ses Mr. James thoomping on the table “that a man cannot make a
billion onestly. I agree wid me frind Andrew Carnegie, who denies he sed
it, that its impossible.”

“What of those who inherit?” ses Mrs. Wolley.

“Poony-soled, puppy heded eediots. What rite I asks have they to _kape_
the money stolen from the peeple by there fathers?”

Mr. Wolley put in a word here edgewise.

“It seems to me James” ses he “that you are wilfully departing from the
mooted subject. I belave in dyagression—to a limited extint—and whin by
gintle degrees it permits us to cum back to the subjeck under
discushion.”

“Yes” ses Miss Claire, “we must get back to the lons. Its settled. James
you will cut them at leest wanse a week.”

“Once a week! Lord God of Isreel!” grones Mr. James, “I’ll be a fissicle
reck befure the summer wanes.”

“Next” ses Miss Claire, “Johnny _you_ must take care of the horse.”

I thort Mr. John must be tearing up his paper, from the noyse of its
russeling. I pressed up closer to the dure.

“Claire, my deer” ses he, “I beg you think befure you spake. I’ve never
handled a horse in me life. If you contimplate the purchase of a baste,
you will have to hire a man to care for it. I draw” ses he “the lines at
stable work.”

“Very well” ses she, “_you_ can go walk the mile or 2 to the village
after the mail.”

“We’ll take turn about” ses Mr. John.

“What!” shouts Mr. James, “and me wid my grass cutting!”

“To orffset that” ses Miss Claire, “John can rayse our vigitables.”

“My deer child—” began Mr. John “I know not the first thing of—er——”

“You’re all just horrid.” ses Miss Claire and she pushed back her chare.
“Very well then, I wash my hands of the hole affare.”

“James” ses Mr. Wolley in sturn commanding toans, “You will cut the lons
as intercated by your sister. John” ses he “I will expect you to rayse
addecut vigitables for the table.”

“Daddy” ses Miss Claire, “_you’ll_ go to the Post-Office wont you like
an angel?”

“Certainly my deer” ses he, “It will give me grate pleshure.” A silence
followed here, and the auld gintleman must have bethort him of his hasty
promise, for ses he:

“We will kape a horse” ses he, “at a neerby livery stable.”

Mr. James bust out larfing.

“Whats my juties to be?” swately inquires Mrs. Wolley, trying to change
the paneful subject.

“Oh mamma” ses Miss Claire, “_you_ may care for the chickens.”

“Let me see” ses Mrs. Wolley “Aren’t there such things
as—er—lice—connected with chickens?”

“Yes deer—but if you’ll kape the coop always witewashed” ses Miss
Claire, “the lice’ll go.”

Mrs. Wolley coffed unaisily.

“And now _you_, miss?” shouts Mr. James, “what have you left for
yourself to do?”

“Theres a thousand and wan things, but as my cheef and spechul jooty
outside of the hivvy housekaping wid the constant tack and diplomassy it
intales to kape our unsertin Delia, I will undertake to—er—rayse sweet
_flowers_ for the beutifying of our lons and house.”

“Call _that_ work!” larfs Mr. James.

“You inappreeshitive duffer” ses Mr. John in his gintlest voyce. “I vote
that we adjoin.”

“One moment” ses Mr. James. “What of Billy? Is he to be the sole mimber
of this innergitick family to live in aise and lazy cumfut?”

“No indeedy” ses Miss Claire. “Never! Tho but 6 yeers of age, hes old
enuff to ern his daily bred. Willy” ses she “shall be our yuniversul
caddy. His will be the tax of carrying water to the hungry thoorsty wans
what toyle.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER X

                              THE NEXT DAY


I was up to me eers in work—it being wash day. As I carried the clothes
out to be hung I noted the following: Mr. John was walking up and down
taking triminjus long stips back and forth over the back lon. Wid the
tales of his coat flying out behind him and his spickticles hanging by a
string from his eer he looked so like a loonytick that I drapped me
baskit of clothes.

“My God, Mr. John” I exclaimed involuntarararily “Are you sun struck.
Whats the trubble” ses I, and I stopped him in his mad careerer as Mr.
James wud call it by grabbing him by his cote tales. He turned about,
looks at me wid wild eyes and ses horsely:

“Twinty-two and a harf—twinty-two and a—Bother the girl!” ses he
interrupting himsilf, “Are you crazy? Let go me cote tales.” I releesed
him. Ses he irrytibly:

“Can’t you see I’m bizzy? I’m meshuring off me vigitible garden” and wid
that he starts marching over the same line agin.

“My God, Mr. John!” ses I “are you using yur legs for a meshure?”

But he herd me not. I toar me horryfied eyes away frum the madman, and
just then I seen Mr. James. He was standing also on the lon, neerer the
frunt of the house. He’s leening on the lon mower, and if ever I seen
dispare in human eyes it was in those orbs of Mr. James. I wint to him
wid me hart full of sympathy for the lad.

“Whats ailing you Mr. James?” I arsks.

[Illustration:

  “‘Mr. John,’ I exclamed involuntarararily, ‘are you sun struck? What’s
    the trubble?’ ses I.”
]

“The lons!” ses he. “You will obsarve Delia, that I’m commincing me tax
at the beginning of the week, for I am firmly convinsed no human arm
cood cut those lons in less than sivin days.”

“Why don’t you get a dago, Mr. James” ses I.

“Sh!” ses Mr. James, guving me arm a shuv. “Spake lowly Delia. Ob-sarve”
and he poynted acrost the lons.

There aginst the finse which divides our place from a grate estate was
Miss Claire hersilf _digging_. She had a little red gingum aprun over
her dress and the slaves was rolled oop to the ilbos. On her hed was the
strangest looking site of a hat. I reckynised it wid horrer. It wuz a
Spanish monsterosity Mr. James brot back wid him that time he wint to
Pannyma to expose the Prissydint. Until this day Miss Claire had yused
it for a waste paper barsket in her room, tying it in a boonch wid
ribbon and hanging it artisticully upon the wall. Now she woar it on her
hed! Joost thin she looked up from her digging and seen me.

“Now Delia” ses she “don’t be bothering Jimmy. Hes got lots to do. We
_all_ have” she adds swately.

“What be you doing Miss Claire?” arsks I, going over to her, and looking
wid suspisshon at the hole she’s after diggin. “My God Miss” ses I “it
looks like a grave.”

“Delia! Why” ses she “I’m sitting out a flouring hidge. I’m follring the
rules of the bist orthorities on hortyculcheer. See:” and she poynted to
her pockets which were boolging out wid books. “All are agreed” ses she
“that a gardin shud be begun wid a flouring hidge. My gardin will be one
glow of luvliness from spring till frorst and maybe later. Its
possible.”

“But miss” ses I “ye’ll nade a gardiner for the tax”

“Never! Why I’ve been setting up nites studying me subjeck. I expect to
devoat——” just thin she guv a little joomp and her cheeks turned pink
wid excitemint.

“My goodness Delia!” ses she wispering, “th-theres _a_ man” ses she.

“Whare?” ses I, glaring about me, riddy for war upon anny dirty tramps
trispessing upon our place.

“The other side the fince” ses she, wispering. I looked over, but seen
no wan.

“Are you quite _sure_?” asks she, trimbling a bit.

“I am” ses I. She turned pale, and siesed hold of me arm.

“Delia!” ses she whispering “d-d-d-do you remimber that—that—young man
who——”

“Is it your future hoosband ye’re maning?”

“Nonsinse” ses she blushing, “but—but I meen him anyhow. Well—well—do
you know—I—I—I’m afrade he’s _honting_ me” ses she.

“My God miss” ses I “do you think he’s a banshee?”

“No, no Delia—but—but well” ses she, “the fack is I’m always _thinking_
about him, and now—now ackshully I thort I saw him—over there” ses she.

“Suppose” ses I “you tak a look again Miss Claire.”

“I cant” ses she, shinking aginst me, “and beside the finse is so high.
Its—its—much taller than I am” ses she.

“Ah come on” ses I, and pulled her to the finse. “Here miss, I’ll lift
you up,” and wid that I grabbed her by the waste and hawled her up. She
screemed. I dropped her wid a boomp, for there looking over, rubbing his
hed where Miss Claire has boomped aginst it, is the Madison Avenoo dood.
Miss Claire tuk to her feet and wint flying tord the house, her books
drapping out of her pockits as she run.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER XI

                                NEXT DAY


Larst nite Miss Claire cum into me bedroom. She looked like a bit of a
girl in her little frilled nitedress and her pretty hare hanging down
her back in 2 curly brades. “Are you awake?” ses she turning on the
lite. “Don’t be angry please Delia deer” ses she. “I wanted to talk to
somewan.”

She coodled oop aginst me, thin she laned over and whispered:

“Delia, tell me the trooth, d-d-d-did you see him—k-kiss me?” ses she
flushing all over.

“The yung spalpeen!” ses I, and thin she hid her face in her hand.

“Oh Delia I’m—I’m—so—_ashamed_ I d-don’t know _what_ to do.”

“Do!” ses I. “Why tell your brothers darlint. They’ll swape the airth
wid the impidint yung spalpeen.”

“No, no, no! We must never breethe a word” ses she. “Promise me you
wont, Delia,” and she sarches me face.

“Darlint” ses I “all the torchures of the dummed could not unlock me
lips. Your sacred swatehart is secure in me bussum.”

Wid that she guv me a kiss, and wint steeling out agin.

“Mr. John” ses I, this marning while hes ating his loan brikfust (a cup
of biling water) I’m looking for sartin infamation.

“Well fire away Delia” ses he still absarbed in his paper.

“If a lady” ses I “was to kiss a gintleman wid hoom she was not
acquinted wud the gintleman be insoolted?”

He put down his paper, tuk off his glarses and looked at me sollemly.

“Has some wan kissed _you_ Delia?” ses he.

“My God, no sir” ses I, “but I’m studying the respectful sects.”

He retired behind his paper agin, and Mr. James cum wistling into the
room. Hes very cheerful these days is Mr. Jimmy. He gets app, he ses, at
5 A.M. in the morning to cut the lons. The tax he ses at that wiching
our is anchanting. Ivery marning when we get up we see a porshon of the
lon cut. At 8 Mr. James sonters in frish from his after cutting lon bath
as he calls it. “Sum day” ses Mr. John who has his trubbles digging up
the airth where the vigitibles are to go “I’ll try your skeem.”

“Don’t” ses Mr. James anxshissly. “What applies to lons may not do for
gardins.”

Well this marning, Mr. John repeats me quistion to his brother.

“Delia” ses he “wants to know how a man wud feel if suddintly assolted
and amberaced by a yung and pretty lady—of coorse shes yung and pretty,
Delia eh?” ses he.

“What wud he do!” ses Mr. James. “Lord God of Isreel why he’d—he’d
pursoo her like a caveman till she guv anuther kiss.”

“My God!” ses I drapping the dishes in me hand, “and wimmen is jest
alike.”

I wint down to me kitchen, whare I guv a peece of me mind to the
grocer’s man. Shure he do be after charging the Wolleys the most oonherd
of prices for the food, and whin I’m after making a complaint in the
madam’s name, the raskill opp and offers me a boniss.

“And what is that?” ses I.

“Tin per sint” ses he. “Its the custom on the Poynt amang the cooks to
accipt a boniss fram the tradesmen. We tak it out of the peeple
thimsilves” ses he, “eyther in wate or price.”

“Is it a thafe ye’d mak me?” ses I, faulding me arms over me chist.
“thin ye may thank yere stars” ses I “that Miss Claire is too angaged to
be interrupted at the prisint moment, for its she hersilf wud be showing
you the dure. As it is I take the tax upon mesilf.”

Wid that I saysed hauld of the broom, and drove the craychure out. I
seen Miss Claire joomp oop from whare shes digging at her floury hidge,
and as the thafe wint flying down the parth, wid me at his heels, both
she and the dood bust out larfing, she thrying her bist to kape a strate
face.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XII

                              A WEEK LATER


“Ortermobiles” ses Mr. Wolley tying his horse up feercely to the veranda
post “is a meniss to our prisint civilisashun. Nowadays” ses he, “its
impossible for a gintleman to drive in quite peece in aven the most
seclooded porshun of the woods. The gratest evil which these damnible
veehicles have brot” ses he “is its maleevilint effect upon the
conshunse and disposition of modun peeble. Peeple who own these infernul
evil smelling noysy cursed cars are like the victims of some orful
drug—devoyed of dacinsy—of rispict—of consideration and proper mercy
tord there feller beings. There shud be a lor passed making it a
criminal offinse punishible by the pinnytensherry to ride the dammed
masheen on the public hyways at all. Rodes and highways are the
legitimut proppety of horses and pedestryians. Its a disgrace to our
modun civilysashun that we have cum to such a sorry pass—a week-need
trimbling fritened lot afrade to vinchure forth for feer of having our
lives cut aff widout warning by these infernal veehicles.”

Wid that he mops his brow, and sets down widout looking on the shteps. I
was swaping down the verandahs wid a pale of water, and had driven the
family at the poynt of me broom to the lons below. Whin the auld
gintleman found himself sated in a pool of the water he shoots up wid a
yell. Miss Claire runs forward and trys to squaze the water out from his
cote tales—larfing as her father swares.

“Poor old daddy!” ses she “I’m afrade if I let you go arfter the male
much longer you’ll be a pray to nerviss prosperation.”

“Do you imagine” ses the auld gintleman feercely “that I’m to be robbed
of me daily drive by a parcel of godless hairbrained—damnible——”

“Papa” ses little Billy, bringing over his pale from his sandpile. “_I_
loves the oretermobiles?”

“Why bless me hart!” ses the auld man melting “and what do you know of
them you raskill” ses he.

“I had a ride in one yistiday” ses Billy.

“What!” ses the hole family at wance.

“Yes” ses Billy, nodding his little hed, “Theres a grate big wan in that
place there” ses he poynting, “and yistiday when Claire was digging her
old flours there cum a yung man who luked over the fince, and he sed—he
sed——”

Miss Claire wint first crimson thin wite. Then crimson agin.

“Billy deerie” ses she, “cum and let me swing you in the hammick.”

“Go on Billy” airges Mr. James, guving his sister a quare look.

“He sed good morning to Claire, and she was very rood and jest wint on
wid her digging and then he sed he was sorry and he cudent help himself
becoz he herd what she sed about honting her, and then he seen me and
said hello yung wan, come over here, and then I went and he reeched down
and lifted me up and tuk me over to his place. And he guv me a ride in
his nortemobile and on a donkey’s back, did’nt he Claire?”

She sed, widout looking up.

“I suppose he did, Billy, but I” ses she “was too bizzy. I—I d-didnt
look” ses she.

Mr. James bounces up. “Claire” ses he “that hidge of yours is taking a
jolly long time to dig.”

Mrs. Wolley looked turribly alarmed.

“He was probably sum gardiner or groom” ses she “Did you spake to him
Claire deer?”

“_No!_” ses Miss Claire wid emfasis.

“Yet you let him take little Billy?” ses Mr. James.

“Am I me brother’s kaper?” ses she flushing round on thim all.

“I won’t have Claire badgered” ses the auld gintleman. “Is she
rayspunsible for the silly thricks of the yung ass in there? He’s the
very one who whin I refoosed to move out of the rode to let his infernal
masheen go by drove it rite under me horse’s nose, almost upsetting me.
Billy” ses he, “if I heer of your taking any more rides or spaking to
the man over there I’ll whip you. You under stand sir?”

“Yessir” whimpered the preshus lamb and flew to me arms for comfut.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XIII

                              ANOTHER DAY


“Are you bizzy, Delia” arsks Mr. John, cumming into me kitchen wid a
barskit.

“I’m oop to me eers sor” ses I. I wus setting on the ice crame freezer,
thrying to cool aff, after making the crame for loonch.

“Wud you like to make sum monney” ses he.

“Shure darlint” ses I.

“I’m tired of this gardin bisiness,” ses he. “Now these are seeds.” He
set the barskit down befure me. “Theyve joost arrived. Heres a book
giving fool instruckshuns how to plant thim. You go ahed,” ses he “and
plant thim whin you git a chance. I’d suggest” ses he “that you do it in
the airly marning, but me brother James who cuts the lons at those
unairthly ours wud see you, so do it whenever the feeld is cleer. And
heres a dollar.”

“Thank you sor” ses I. I set to wark at wance imtying the seeds from
there respictible packages into me bred pan. Then I give them all a good
mixup thegither. The book I shuved aside wid scorn.

“Anny wan I’m thinking but a doom eediot cud plant seeds in the grownd”
ses I to mesilf, “and what wud I be arfter needing instroockshuns for?”

Joost thin Miss Claire cum in to guv me the orders os I tuk it for the
day. Shes a bit flustered and oopset.

“O Delia” ses she “what _do_ you think. A cupple of papa’s frinds have
cum up frum town, and we’ll have to kape thim for loonch. What have we
got?”

“See for yersilf” ses I, biling over wid rage. Company indade on Winsdy,
wid the tale ind of the ironing to finish, and seeds to be planted in
the gardin.

“O deer!” ses she “there is’nt a thing hardly. What will we do? I’m sure
none of those trade people will deliver in time. What did you plan to
give us to-day Delia?”

“Its _hash_ ye’ll get and be thankful” ses I.

“But theres no cold meat aven” ses she in disthress.

“I’ll attind to that” ses I.

“But——”

“Now see here Miss Claire, its no time I have for argying wid me hands
boorsting wid wark this marning. Will you be going or shull I?”

“Well Delia deer” ses she meekly, “If you _can_ make aven hash out
of—nothing—c-cudent you just cuvver it over wid mashed pertaters and
brown it in the uvven? It tastes diffruntly that way.”

“I’ll see about it” ses I.

“O Delia!” ses Miss Claire, “be nice or I don’t see how I’ll dare to ask
a speshul favour of you.”

“Favour is it?” ses I toorning upon her. She roon ap to me, and befure I
can shpake anuther word, shes got her arms about me.

“Now lissen deer” ses she. “I’ve finished me floury hidge and this
afternoon I must shtart on the beds. _You_ do the digging for me like an
angel” ses she.

“Digging is it? Do you tak me for——”

“Please, please” ses she.

“It depinds intirely on how the loonch goes” ses I gruffly. “Now
raymimber not wan ward of crittersickem will I be heering to.”

“Not wan word” ses she.

After she had gone I dischuvvered that there was’nt a speck of tea in
the house and exactly three coffee beens oanly. I wint upshstairs
speshully to infarm Miss Claire. “Be careful now” ses I “to ignoar the
subject. Lit your gests think ye’ve forgotten the biverage.”

All wint well for loonch, till Mr. James, soospecting the thruth,
ondertook to refer to me hash as “patty de 4 grass a la Delia” a dish
ses he of our Delia’s own invinshun. I guv wan look at Miss Claire, and
she changed the subject. Thin Mrs. Wolley asked the lady which she wud
have—coffee or tee, and before the unforchnit craychure cud answer I
spoke up at wance:

“Ye’ll get neyther” ses I.

Miss Claire at wance requisted me to bring on sum more “snow hash.” Wid
that me last bit of payshunce wint, for theres not anuther speck of the
stuff to be had.

“Do ye think” ses I “that wan can of potted ham will feed a large family
to more than wan sarve a peece?”

“Potted ham!” ses Mr. James, forgitting himself and the company.

“Potted ham!” ses I, “for its no meet in the house at all we’re after
having, and shure the potted stuff is good enuff for you.” Wid that I
wint into the pantry and got the can and tuk it into the dining-room and
showed it to the silent family.

“Is it misdoubting me word ye are” ses I. “Then see for yersilves.” And
I showed them the can wid its pretty ligind: “Guvvymint inspeckshun.”

Mr. James got up and left the room. Mr. Wolley, groonting followed.

“Excuse me!” ses I and walked out also.

Felling a bit sorry for the unforchnit family I got riddy a foine
dinner, and was after rolling me pie paste when Miss Claire cum in and
coxed me into going wid her to the gardin. She put me to wark digging a
hole in the cinter of the illygunt lon, frish cut by Mr. James. “The
boys have gone bathing” ses she, “papa’s out driving and mama’s aslape.
Nows our chance. O Delia how forchnit it is our gests didn’t stay for
dinner too.”

Thin she left me, and wint over to her floury hidge, whare she neels
down and looks at the airth. All of a sudden she guv a little cry:

“Cum quick Delia!” Ses she “Cum quick.”

I rooshed over wid me ho, thinking theres a snake or tode in the grass.

“Look!” ses Miss Claire, trimbling wid excitement.

“What! Where is the craychure?”

“There! See, its me hedge!” ses she. “O Delia its the first showing. In
a little wile it’ll grow bigger and bigger, and by and by therell be
flours—beauties. And I” ses she “did it all mesilf—wid these hands.
Don’t you see it—that little speck of grane.”

“Sorrer a bit do I see darlint” ses I.

“Why Delia! Its there oonless me eyes decave me.”

“They don’t” ses a bold voice boldly, and the dood nixt door lanes over
the fince and stares sintimintully at the spot where Miss Claire is
poynting. She guv a little start and blushed. Then she arsks
sarcarskully:

“May I arsk if you can see it at that distunce?”

“Certainly” ses he at wunce, “but I belave I cud see it better if I cam
a little nearer.” Wid that he joomps over the fince and walks to where
Miss Claire is neeling. Together they look at the airth.

“Bully for you!” ses he offering to shake the hand which she holds back
timidly. “Why” ses he “its—its a—a rose, is’nt it?” ses he.

“No” ses Miss Claire withdroring the hand she had joost surrindered.
“Its a hullyhock” ses she.

“Well its fine anyhow” ses he, looking at her wid both his eyes popping
out of his hed. “Youre quite a horty culchurist” ses he.

“O no indade” ses she, “its me first attimp. Do you” ses she “know
anything about it?”

“Well” ses he “I can tell a vylet from a rose and a dandylion from a
daysy.”

“Then” ses she, “you wont be intrested in my little gardin.”

“Wont I” ses he, so vylently she drops her eyes. “Why I’m ackshully
captifated by that little speck of green” ses he. “Aren’t you its
creator?”

“Wate till it begins to bloom” ses she enthoosicully. Joost thin she
seen her brothers coming in wid the bote oars on their shoulders. She
started away from the dood, and wint narvissly to meet thim. The dood
histated a moment, and then wint ap to the boys. He hild out his hand.

“I’m your next dure naybor” ses he “and I drapped over to make a corl.”

“How do” ses Mr. James giving him a corjul shake “Pretty good bathing
here” ses he “Ever go out?”

“O yes” ses the dood “We have a little privit beech of our own. Your
welcom to use it any time.”

Mr. James frowned.

“The public beech is good enuff” ses he shortly, but Mr. John ses at
wance:

“Thank you I’ll thry your place sum day.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XIV

                              ANOTHER DAY


“James” ses Mr. Wolley coming into brikfust at an oonexpected airly our
“you’re a frord and raskill sir” ses he.

The family all looked startled.

“Yes sir” ses his father sturnly “ye’ve been deceiving your sister
shamefully. You have been practicing a frord. I happened” ses he turning
to the rist of the family “to awaken airly this marning and going to the
window to pull down the shade I saw a man ingaged in cutting the lons.
Congrachulating mesilf on the possession of such an industryiss and
paynestaking sun, I corled to the fellow, who thereupon looked up. He
was a sworthy faced working man—an Italyun. There Claire” ses he “is the
sacred of your brothers well cut lons.”

“Jimmy!” ses Miss Claire reproachfully.

He puts his hands into his pants pocket and thrys to look indiffrunt.

“I ordered the feller off the grounds” continued her father “for I was
detarmined that no sun of mine shud shirk his respunsibilities in that
shameliss fashun. Sir” ses he, turning upon Mr. James, “you’ll be good
enuff to resoom the cutting of the lons after brikfust.”

For wance Mr. James was silent. He et his brikfust widout opening his
mouth wance.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER XV

                              ANOTHER DAY


A little widder who lives across the rode cum to-day to call upon the
family. She brung along wid her a yung thing swate enuff to ate. They
cum driving up behind a pare of spanking horses and drov up under the
port coshare. Mr. James was cutting his milincoly lon, and he niver
looked up at all.

The younger one called to him swately.

“Will you hold the horses, plase.”

Mr. James pushed back his hat and glared like he wad bite her.

“I beg your pardin” ses she and the widder begins to larf and closed up
her parrysol. Joost then Mr. John cum round from the back of the house.
He lucks very straynge and funny, being in overalls, his spicticles
poysed on the tip of his nose, his hair standing opp where his fingers
have been running through it. Its a turrible tax the poor gintleman has
been doing. Shure hes been all day digging up the seeds which I
carefully mixed and planted. The ladies in the carriage try to stop
larfing and the yunger one joomps out.

“Is Mrs. Wolley at home” ses she.

Miss Claire laves her floury hidge and dood, and wint running forward,
wid her little muddy hands hild out. I seesed hauld of an aprun on the
line and tied it on me. Thin I wint to anser the dure. Miss Claire is
leeding them on to the veranda.

“I’m Miss Wolley” ses she, “you find us all ingaged at our respictuf
toyle. My brother James cuts the grass, John’s the vigitable gardiner,
and I rayse swate flours——”

“What fun!” ses the widder clasping her hands, “How perfeckly deliteful.
It mus be just like playing, is’nt it,” and she turned her big black
eyes on Mr. John.

“Will ye walk inside” ses I, braking in here, “Mrs. Wolley will be down
in a moment. Shes not well, but she’s for seeing you. Joost have a seet,
she ses.”

“O lets sit out here!” ses the widder. “You were talking of your
gardin?” ses she turning to Mr. John wid a smile.

“—er yes” ses he. “But I’m a mere noviss. Do you understand anything
about the art?”

“Do I?” ses she, sitting in the saftest veranda chare, “Why I’ve a
reppytashun in the Poynt for me vigitibles. Have’nt I Una?” and she
appealed to her frind, who has just infarmed Mr. James that sumtimes she
cuts her papa’s lons wid her own fare hands, jest for exsysise.

“Yes” ses Miss Una, nodding her pretty hed, “Why” ses she “theres a
sertin kind of turnip nown to fame as The Widdy Jane.”

“Una!” ses the widder larfing, “but relly” ses she turning back to Mr.
John agin “I manage my own little farm all mesilf.”

I let Mrs. Wolley out thru the fly dure and thin the auld gintleman wint
out, also wid his face red and shining from the quick shave he’s given
it. They all torked and larfed and thin finully got up to go. Thin Miss
Claire asks carelessly.

“And hoo are our naybours on this side?” and she intercated the doods
place.

“Have’nt they called on you yet” arsks the widder.

Mrs. Wolley frowned a bit, but Miss Claire ses swately:

“Oh yes one of the suns called.”

“One of the suns!” ses the widder, “Why Harry’s the only child. Una
here,” ses she, smiling “can tell you all about him.”

“I!” ses Miss Una, opening her brown eyes wide, “O yes” ses she “Harry
and I yused to be sweet on aich other senturies ago. Hes a deer boy” ses
she, “and you’ll meet his mother soon I suppose, and old S. Judd
Dudley.”

Mr. Wolley and Mr. James both bounced up in their seets. The auld
gintleman conthrolled himsilf.

“Pardon me, my deer” ses he “but did I oonderstand you to say our
naybour’s name was Dudley—S. Judd Dudley?”

“Yes” ses she “the famiss S. Judd. Youve herd of him of coorse.”

“I have” ses Mr. Wolley slowly, and the hole family looked at aich uther
strayngely.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XVI

                              A WEEK LATER


“The curse of true love” ses Miss Claire mornfully “never did run
smoothly. O Delia” ses she “I wish I were ded!”

“Whats the thrubble, darlint?” ses I stopping me wark for a moment.

“Don’t you know?” she arsks.

“Why no darling. Do you think I’m at the kayhole _all_ the time?”

She larfed a bit throo her teers. Then she set down, and put her chin on
her little hand.

“Delia” ses she “do you know I havent spoken to Mr. Dudley for a week.”

“My God miss” ses I, “are you cutting the lad?”

She nods her hed sadly.

“The poor lad!” ses I “and he do be wayting for you ivery day at the
floury hidge.”

“Papa wont let me go neer it” ses she wid a sob.

“Then why dussent the yung spalpeen cum to the house thin?” ses I
indigantly.

“He did” ses she “twice—and—and James insoolted him. O Delia” ses she,
and hides her face in her hands.

I drors her into me arms and pets her like a babby, while she poars out
into me sympatetic eers her thrubbles.

“You know Delia” ses she “papa yused to be professer of mathymatucks at
Logun Yunyversity. Well last winter James began that orful muck rake
riting. It seems Mr. Dudley had given a grate many chares to Logun
Yunyversity.”

“Chares darlint? For the lads to set upon?”

“No Delia—but it dussent matter. Anyhow he was a grate power in papa’s
colluge. Well James began exposing millynairs in the magazines and
papers and by and by rote a powerful artuckle on tinted munney. He sed
orful things of Mr. Dudley who wint clane crazy about it. You see he
loved to pose as a bennyfactory to his cuntry and James had shown him as
he was. It wassent papa’s folt but Mr. Dudley revinged himself on papa.
He got the thrustees to ask for papa’s assignashun and now papa joins
with James in thinking him the gratest rarscal of the time. So you can
see Delia” ses she, her lips trimbling “that nachully they hafnt much
yuse for Harry, and—and they’ve forbidden me to speak to him again.”

“You poor lamb” ses I “but shure if I was Mr. Harry I’d find a way to
see you if I had to sneek into the kitchen itself to do it.”

“Delia!” ses she, clutching me arm excitedly, “What an idear! Oh Delia”
ses she “Why not?”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XVII

                              ANOTHER DAY


Wrote a letter to-day to me frind Minnie Carnavan asking her advise. It
were as follows:

    Deer Minnie: I hope you are well as this laves me at prisint.
    Its a long time since I seen yer swate face, but wid the wark of
    a family of six to do, besides helping Mr. James to cut the
    lons, Mr. John to plant the gardin, whitewashing of the chicken
    coop for Mrs. Wolley, I’m clane doon up whin nite cums. But
    theres anuther kind of wark I’m lately doing, and being its what
    mite be called mind wark me nerves ar beginning to thrubble me
    and whin annyone spakes to me at all I shtart upp like a thafe
    cort at a crime. Its minny a day since I wint to confesshun and
    me mind is deeply thrubbled wid the thort that the praste will
    refuse me absilooshun.

    The thruth of the matter be that I’m helping a dorter decave her
    luving parents. Its 2 weeks now since I begun to let Mr. Harry
    in at the back dure. Me foine privit dining-room which Miss
    Claire had told me was for me to sit in alone is occupyed in the
    avening excloosively by Miss Claire and her bow. To add to me
    minny kares the child requires me to chappyrong her as shes
    after calling it. And so ivry nite there I sits in me kitchen
    drapping aslape sometimes wid me hed on the table.

    Its hard on a poor sole, and on me Thirsdays and Soondays out
    the yung crachures do be bigging me to stay at home, she wid her
    coaxing words, and he wid his everlasting munney. Shure its
    ritch I’m getting wid five dollars here and the tin dollars
    there.

    Now Minnie deer, rite me a swate letter at wunse and tell me
    what to do.

    The family do be soospecting nuthing, for Mr. Wolley seems to
    have sum sacred thrubble of his own. After Mrs. Wolley gets to
    bed at ate (she being a sufferer from insomnear ivery nite) I
    seen Mr. Wolley sneeking out of the house, like he was after
    going out for some meeness, and she his lorful wife innersent
    and unsoospecting and he an old man wid four grown luvly
    children.

    The widder across the rode to be rooning after Mr. John and
    ivery nite hes aff to talk wid her about her preshus vigitibles,
    and wud ye belave it Minnie darlint she do be sinding over
    messes ivery day from her gardin “samples” she calls thim “of me
    own raysing.”

    Mr. James do be crazy wid luv for Miss Una Robbins but the poor
    lad do be making himsilf that oonhappy a body dare not spake to
    him at all at all. You see the girl do be a magnut’s dorter and
    Mr. James is that set against all magnuts hes beside himsilf wid
    rage.

    Ah Minnie this do be a straynge bit of coontry wid ivery body in
    lov wid aich uther. Over at the Dudley house there be two bold
    lads. Wan is very fine and ijjicated. He’s Frinch—a expert
    shoffer as he ses. Its the hite of his ambition so he told me a
    few days sinse whin I be hanging out me clothes to own a small
    coontry shop for ortermobiles, “Boot” ses he “it taks money to
    buy aven a modust little place,” and arsks me carelessly whether
    I be of the saving kind of girl. “Why musser” ses I “Its $700
    Iv’ve poot away in the bank for me auld age.” “Mon joor!” ses
    he, gaping at me, and it was just thin I made the acquintunce of
    the other lad. Hes a grate rude spalpeen, and he’s after being
    in charge of the Dudley stables, so he tells me, ilbowing the
    perlite Frinchman aside.

    “Good marning!” ses he “I see yure new round these parts, or you
    wouldnt be after spaking wid the Frinchy.”

    I confess Minnie I was thruly ashamed of the manner of the auld
    cuntry when I seen the diffrunce betwane the axshuns of museer
    and the other wan. I toorned a face of scorn upon the latter,
    picked up me baskit and marched aff in dudgin.

    I’ll be closing me letter now, hoping your hilth is good as this
    leaves me at prisint.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER XVIII

                             TWO DAYS LATER


Larst nite whin the intyre family had retired for there hard airned
slape there cum a wild ringing at the dure bell. I herd it first in me
slape and yells in frite, thinking of bounding nites and burglars. I
opened me dure and stuck me hed out. The hole family were assimbled in
the lower hall in their nite gowns. Mr. John called up to me:

“Delia!” ses he, “wud ye plase ansser the bell.”

“I will not” ses I. “Do you tak me for a gump!”

“Theres somewan at the dure” ses Miss Claire swately, “The boys arent
drissed and nayther am I. Run along Delia.”

“I’m dummed if I do” ses I wid indigation.

“Oh shaw” ses Mr. James, “what fools we mortals be. Whares me revolver?”
ses he. “I’ll go,” and whistling down he desinds. We heer his voyce
shouting at the closed door:

“Who’s there?”

“Whats that?”

“Who?”

“A tillygram?”

“One minute,” and he opened the dure.

“Who’s it for?” arsks the intyre family at wanse.

“Delia!” ses he, and the family larfing wint to there rooms.

“Put it on the bottom stip darlint” ses I, “and get out of site if you
plaze.”

I wint down and got the paper. It was as follows:

    “Coming at wanse. The saints protick you darlint in the
    manewile. Minnie Carnavan.”

This marning whin I clared aff the brikfust dishes I fownd a letter
oonder Mr. Wolley’s chare, which dishthressed me badly. It were as
follows:

    “Deer sir:

        Do not fail to come to night early as Miss Flyte needs
    attention J. B.”

I intinded to hand the dummed thing back to Mr. Wolley spaking at the
same time me humble but contemshus opinyon of an auld sinner like
himself wid a luvly lorful wife and 4 preshus children of his own. But
after brikfust Mr. Wolley wint out and I sor him not agin till nite. At
tin Minnie arrived. She was all exsitement.

“Now tell me widout words” ses she “what divilmint the family has been
oop to.”

“Divilment” ses I brideling “shure its a swate family they be. Its
ashamed I am to heer you spaking langwidge aginst an innersint and luvly
family like the Wolleys.”

“Ah go wan” ses Minnie. “Whats the auld spalpeen been up to larst.”

“If ye mane Mr. Wolley” ses I coldly, “then its a sore subjeck yeve
tooched. O Minnie” ses I “the auld gintleman is a baste.”

Minnie like to ate me opp wid hunger for some more words upon the
subjeck.

I tuk out the letter and handed it to her widout further words. She red
it throo widout spaking, but I seen her mouth and eyes popping wid
exsitemint.

Joost thin Mrs. Wolley walks innersintly into me kitchin. She has sum
fine lace in her hand, and she ses: “Lind me your ironing bord Delia.
I’m doing these oop mesilf.” Joost thin she seen Minnie, and she smiles
swately—“Ah is this a frind of yours, Delia?” ses she.

Minnie got oop. I seen her studying the poor crachure for a moment, and
then suddintly she walked oop to her and hild out the letter.

“I belave mam” ses she “that this will intrust you.”

“What is it?” ses the madam, putting on her glarses.

“Its a letter mam” ses Minnie “to yere hoosband.”

I seen her reed it throo, and aven then she had not grasped the meaning
of the avil minded crachure’s words, till the latter spoke oop agin:

“Are you a dummy?” asks Minnie, “Don’t you see what yere auld man is
after being oop to. Delia here” ses she “innersintly remarked about his
sneeking out at nite to mate anuther female. The paper there reveels the
auld man’s inamoreeta.”

I thort the auld lady wud faynt. She toorned white as milk, and I seen
the paper shaking in her hand like she had the ague. But wid out
condisinding a ward to eyther Minnie or mesilf she wint out the kitchen
and upstares.

“Miss Carnavan” ses I, biling over wid rage, “theres a trane laving
widin tin minits. Yell have plinty of time to catch it.”

Minnie smiled.

“Delia darlint” ses she “did you think I’d be after thravelling sixty
miles to visit you for harf an our? No darlint” ses she “I’ve brot me
bag along and I’ll be wid you for a fortnite yet.”

“That you wont” ses I, “for its your bag will be out in the cinter of
the strate and yersilf will follow in a sicond.”

Minnie faulded her arms and fixed me wid a look of power and scorn.

“Delia Omally” ses she “the day you toorn your best frind out into the
strate” ses she “will be your last. Trate me” ses she “in anny way save
as a perfeck lady and I’ll publish yere letter on the housetops.”

It cum upon me then that like the foolish loonytick I be I’d put mesilf
in Minnie’s power.

“O wirrah, wirrah, wirrah!” I cryed throwing me aprun over me hed.

“Don’t be after making a fool of yersilf” ses Minnie, “Have sinse, Delia
mavourneen. Here I am, and here I stay.”

At loonch Mr. James and John et there meel alone. Mrs. Wolley and Miss
Claire were locked up in the bed room. During the meel the gintlemen
spake not at all, save wanse thin Mr. John sed:

“Tak sum loonch upstares to mother and Claire, Delia” ses he, and thin
after a moment: “Get that woman out of the house” ses he “as quickly as
possible.”

“And Delia” puts in Mr. James, conthrolling his nachelly loud voyse,
“kape your mouth shut.”

“Yes sor” ses I.

Mr. Wolley did not turn up again aven for dinner, and the hole family,
wid the ixsipshun of the madum et in silense. Miss Claire’s eyes looked
red, and I seen her lips were trimbling, as tho she cud skursely kape
the teers back. She cum downstares after the meel, and wispers in me
eer:

“Heres a note for Mr. Dudley when he cums. I—I wont be home to-nite
Delia” ses she wistfully.

“Whare are you going darlint.”

“To look for father” ses she. “O Delia” ses she, “I’m afrade sumething
dredful is about to happen.”

“Let me go wid you darlint” ses I.

“But—the letter?” ses she, “somewan must give it to Mr. Dudley.”

“I’ll be plazed to do it” spoke up Minnie at wanse.

She looked at Minnie misdoutfully. Thin she wint up to her and quitely
guv her the note.

“I’ll trust you then!” ses she to the crachure.

About sivin in the avening the hole family, including meself set out
from the house for 17 Arch Strate, which is the number on the letter
paper. Mr. John and Mr. James walked on eyther side there puir mother,
haulding her up by the arms, while Miss Claire and I carried hankychiffs
and smilling salts. By and by we cam to the place, a little auld barn
setting up aginst the side walk. The family guv a look at the noomber
and thin walked boldly in widout nocking. There were a noysy lot of men
inside. A little greesy fellow in overalls cum sontering up to Mr. John.

“What can I do for you?” ses he.

Mr. James ansers befure his brother can spake.

“Is Mr. Wolley here?” ses he bloontly.

“Shure” ses the man “he’s over there wid Miss Flyte” ses he.

Mrs. Wolley stepped forward, her eyes popping out wid anger.

“Where?” ses she in such a horty tone the man stared at her wid
surprise.

“There!” ses he, and poynts across the barn. “Hes having a bit of
trubble wid the auld lady” ses he.

[Illustration:

  “Mr. Wolley cum crorling frum underneath the ortermobile.”
]

We wint across the barn, but see nothing but wan of thim red tooring
cars. We’ve cum close to the ortermobile whin Mr. James makes a
discuvery. Theres sumwan lying undernathe the masheen. He’s hammering on
sumthing, and theres a lited lantern on the flure beside him. Just as
the discuvery was made, Mr. John likewise seen the feet; then Miss
Claire reckynised her papa’s boots and me his hat. Mrs. Wolley nelt down
and looked under the masheen. Then she guv a scrame.

“Charles!” ses she and almost faints. Mr. Wolley cum crorling frum
undernathe the ortermobile. He looks a site, wid his face cuvvered clane
wid dirt and his hands dripping down wid greese.

He guv a look about him, seen us all, and drapped his mouth open wid
astonishment. Joost then Mr. James burst out larfing, and the hole
blessed family joyned in.

“You dummed old frord” ses Mr. James.

“What do you meen sor?” ses Mr. Wolley.

“Whares Miss Flyte?” asks Mr. John.

The auld fellow looked sheepish, and he guv a look back at the
ortermobile.

“Well, ye may as well no the thruth” ses he, “Ive made a good
invistmint. I’ve bort Miss Flyte. She’s a ginooine bargin, better than
anny Frinch imported car, and at quarter the price. I’ve been coming
avenings to lern how to run and understand her. Isn’t she a booty?” ses
he, turning to his new infachuation.

Mrs. Wolley guv a little sob, then she run tord him jest like a child,
and he guv her a kiss, and then helped her clime into the masheen.

“There’s room for six” ses he. “All aboord. We’ll tak Miss Flyte home.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XIX

                                NEXT DAY


“An ortermobile” ses Mr. Wolley at the brikfust table “is the veehicle
of the moduns. Its a boom to soofering yumanity in this yumid and
turribly trying and hot summers of this climut. In my opinyon” ses he,
“its the greatest of modun invinshuns. Don’t interrupt James” ses he,
turning upon Mr. James, who was snickering noysily, “I confess” ses Mr.
Wolley “that I was want sometime ago to curse the horseliss vehicle, but
times are changed” ses he, “and we who wish to kape step wid the times
must grow wid it. An ortermobile is a cooltivated taste its like olives.
Whin first tasted we detist its flavour, but having thryed it wanse or
twice we becum its ardint slaves. Jimmy” ses he “pass me anuther musk
melon. John er—whats the news this marning?”

“O nothing par” ses Mr. John grinning behind his paper. “Our rickliss
pressydint is waring pink pyjamas and Roosel Sage is ded.”

As I was coming down the steps leading from the oopstares to the
bastemint, who should I see, standing outside me kitchen door, but Mr.
Moolvaney. The gintleman has his face aginst the closed dure, and hes
after serrynading the lady inside—namely, me warm frind Minnie Carnavan,
wid the folling sinseliss milody. I shstood still on the stares to
lissen:

               “In Dublin’s fair city
                The girls are so pretty
                I wanse laid me eyes
                On Miss Molly Malone,
                Who wheeled a wheel barrow
                The streets broad and narrow
                Of cockles and mussels alive, alive, Ho!
                Alive, alive, Ho, ho!
                Alive, alive, Ho, ho!
                Of cockles and mussels
                Alive, alive, Ho!

                She was a fish monger
                But shure twas no wonder
                For so was her father and mother before
                And they both wheeled a barrow
                The streets broad and narrow
                Of cockles and mussels alive, alive, Ho!

                She died of the fever,
                Whin no wan cud save her
                And that was the ind of Miss Molly Malone
                But her gost wheels her barrow
                The streets broad and narrow
                Of cockles and mussel alive, alive, Ho!”

As the gintleman finished I shtepped down the stares, and joost thin he
toorned about and seen me caming tord him. He guv a shstart, and ses he:

“Why Delia, is it yersilf, indade? Well, well” ses he, “and shure I was
after thinking it was yersilf was inside the kitchin.”

I condisinded not wan ward, but I walked into me kitchin, past the false
craychure, and I shoot the dure bang in his face. Minnie’s seeted on a
chare, shsmiling from eer to eer.

“Its a grand voyse” ses she, “I’m after lissening to. Who is the handsum
gintleman Delia deer” ses she.

Joost thin the spaking chube rung out and I wint to it at wanse, and
shouted oop at the tap of me voyse:

“I refoose to ansswer!” and wid that I shstopped up the doomed thing wid
me dish towel.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER XX

                              A WEEK LATER


Its been a week of sorrer and disthress since Minnie Carnavan cam to
visit me. Shure theres been no more peace or cumfort in me brest. She do
be the most obstreprus crachure in the warld, shsticking her auld nose
into ivvrywan’s thrubbles and ristliss and onhappy widout shes making
mischiff. Ivery nite since Minnie cum there do be thrubble of sum sort.

Shes after making the lives of the poor yung crachures disthressful, by
interfeering in their innersint convysashun. Ivery nite whin I streches
out me weery tired body upon me bed I lissen to the words of Minnie.

Mr. Doodley do be a rascal and a scallywag. He do be desining to rooin
the life of Miss Claire. Its me thats a sinful crachure for not exposing
thim to her parents and brothers, and its she Minnie Carnavan, who will
seek counsil of her holy father confisser, whos no wan but hersilf. Its
ny to busting she is wid keeping the sacred of the puir yung crachures
love affare, and its tired I am wid me indliss attimpts to conthrol her.
And now its in dred and feer I am that something dredful is about to
happen.

To-nite whin Minnie was lissening at the dure, wid her eer pricked up
aginst the keyhole of me private dyning-room, Mr. Dudley suddenly opens
the dure. He has a bottle in his hand, and as he opens it Minnie falls
at his feet.

“Is there a cat here?” ses he, and shqirts the silzer wather in her
face.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XXI

                             FOLLOWING DAY


This marning whin I waked I missed Minnie Carnavan at me side. Sitting
up and looking about me, I seen Minnie seeted at me table, riting a
litter. She seen me whin I set up, and she faulded oop her litter and
licked the invilip.

“Well Minnie Carnavan” ses I “and what are you up to at this unarthly
our?”

“Hoosh, darlint!” ses she, caming to me bed, and setting down beside me.
“Delia” ses she “I’ve dun it.”

“Dun what?” ses I and I begin to have misgivings.

“I’ve rote” ses Minnie “to the auld gintleman.”

“To Mr. Wolley” ses I a bit daft.

“No” ses she shaking her hed. “To the lad’s father.”

For a minit me tung faled me. I stared at the crachure in silinse. She
got ap from me bed and sarched about for her hat, found it and put it
on.

“Delia O’Malley” ses she “That yung Dudley fellow do be fresh as sour
milk” ses she. “Its been on me conshunse iver sinse I came, mavourneen,
to poonish him for his thricks. Its desaving the pretty Miss Claire hes
after oop to. Trust an auld girl like Minnie Carnavan to see throo the
thricks of a yung spalpeen like that.”

“Minnie” ses I meekly, for theres a feer in me hart that maks me week as
a kitten, “Tell me the truth darlint. Be you going to male a litter to
the lad’s father?”

“Indade and I am” ses Minnie bauldly, “and to mak shure” ses she “that
the old dude gets it safely, I’ll be me own postman and deliver it in
person. Goodbye Delia mavoarneen, I’ll not be coming back. Give me luv
to Mr. Mulvaney.”

Befure I cud git me wits thegither again, Minnie, the ritched, false
crachure was gone. I herd the frunt dure close behind her.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XXII

                                NEXT DAY


Oh wirrah! wirrah! wirrah! Its a sad and loansome warld and its a
trecherus snake is Minnie.

Yesterday me hart was full of feers. Its menny an effort I made to
relave mesilf to Miss Claire, but for pity for the puir yung creachure
me tung refused to spake.

Last nite was a nite of shocks. Mr. John cum down to the bastemint and
taks possisshun after dinner of me privat dining-rume. The widder do be
giving him a barskit full of seeds, frish picked from her gardin, and
he’s after wanting he ses to sort thim out and mark the reyspictiv
packages so he may know them nixt Spring whin hes going to have a fine
gardin.

Miss Claire cum into me kitchin, wid her bloo eyes swimming wid teers.

“What will we do, Delia?” ses she, “John is in the dining-room to-nite,
and I cant get him out.”

“Now don’t you be after wurriting darlint” ses I, “Shure Mr. Harry is
wilcam to me kitchin.”

“But John may walk in upon us” ses she despritly.

“He’d better not” ses I, and wid that I wint to the dure and called out
to Mr. John:

“Will ye be good enuff to kape your disthance from me kitchin to-nite,
as its private company I’m expicting.”

“Very well Delia” ses he perlitely.

I wint outside to the bastemint dure, and wated in person for Mr. Harry.
When he arrived, I tauld him the state of things, and he slipped into me
kitchen. Miss Claire were sitting on me table, her little feet swinging
in the air.

“Good avening” ses she, trying to smile and look chareful “Ye’ll
obsarve” ses she “the extrames to which we are driven. John holds the
fort to-nite.”

Mr. Harry is haulding her hands as she spakes, and watching her face
like he wad ate her up.

“Had I better go thin?” ses he.

“O, if you want to” ses she, slipping down from the table, and turning
away from him a bit.

“Want to!” ses he, “You don’t meen that!”

“No” ses she, saftly, “I—I don’t.”

I thot the yung lad wud grab her, but joost thin he seen me and kept
still.

Miss Claire sayses hauld of a frying pan.

“Never mind” ses she “We’ll enjoy oursilves aven in the kitchen? You’ve
never tasted me famiss fudge, have you Mr. Dudley?”

“No” ses he, looking at her pretty arms, as she rolled back the sleeves
from thim.

“Well” ses she “I larned to make it in me Vassa days. Get me an aprun,
Delia” ses she.

I brot her wan of her own—a little red gingum thin wid frills and
pockits. She let him button it behind her, and he tuk so long she broke
away larfing and blooshing.

“Now” ses she “_You_ may help me. I want cream, sugar, butter and
chocklett. A bit of vernilla too” ses she.

They set to work, busy and happy as childrun making mud pies. By and by
the stuff was cooked, and she set him to mixing it, “and mix it stiff”
ses she, “while I greese the pans.”

This dun, she took a spoon and scooping out a bit she hild it to his
lips. He, not looking at the fudge, but wid his eyes fixed on her,
opened his mouth and took in the spoon. Then he guv a yell and down
drapped the spoon.

“Oh!” ses she, turning pail, “wuz it hot? Harry!” ses she, “I _burned_
you!”

“You call me Harry!” ses he, and saysed hauld of her by the arms. I was
watching wid all me eyes, whin I herd the dure squake a bit. Befure I
cud move tords it Miss Claire roon oop aginst it and hild it closed wid
her little hands.

“The china closet, Delia!” she wispered, and I shuvved Mr. Harry into
the closet and banged the dure tite. Whin we let in Mr. John he looked
about him.

“Whats the matter?” ses he, “Why did you hauld me out?”

“O” ses Miss Claire, gayly, “Its a game Delia and I are playing.”

He frowned and ses cauldly.

“Ye cud find bitter implyment I fancy than playing in the kitchen wid
Delia. Your not a child Claire” ses he.

Shes about to spake in ansser whin the frunt dure bell run, and I saized
me aprun and wint to ansser it, laving the yung peeple alone. As I
reeched the upper flure, I seen Mr. Wolley turning on the lites in the
hall. Then he opened the dure. A little auld gintleman wid wiskers on
his cheeks and spats on his feet stud there.

“Good avening” ses he, “Mr. Wolley, I belave?”

I cud tell by Mr. Wolley’s back that his face was purple. He harf closed
the dure, and thin agin opened it.

“What is it you want?” ses he roodely.

“Who is it father?” ses Mr. James, comeing into the hall, then he too
seen the little gintleman. The latter is spaking wid horchure and
dignity.

“I cum, sor” ses he, “to—er—ask—you sir, to requist me sun to lave your
house.”

“I don’t oonderstand you” ses Mr. Wolley cauldly.

“I resaved” ses the auld gintleman, stepping into the hall, “a nonnymuss
epissle this marning. Ordinary I ignoar sich things, but me suspishuns
had alreddy been aroused. I tuk it upon mesilf to play the detictive
to-nite. When me sun left the house I followed him here. I saw him inter
ye’re place be way of the—er—bastemint” ses he hortily. “I wayted around
a bit and thin desided to spake to you personally. You—er—probably
appreeshiate me position” ses he. “I of coorse, shall absolutely refuse
to reckynise anny foolish shcrape of the yungster—he’s a mere boy” he
adds loftily.

“Sir” ses Mr. Wolley, “if yure yung ass of a sun—I yuse the word
advisedly” ses he “has been making a fool of himsilf over a girl in me
imploy, I am not intrusted in the affare. Will you be good enuff to go
to the back dure.”

Wid that he’s about to open the dure, when he seen me standing there.

“Delia!” ses he, “Heres your yung man’s father. Just tak him into the
kitchen.”

Old Mr. Dudley seemed aboot to boorst, but befure he cud spake, Mr.
James tuk him by the arm and lid him gintly but firmly to the kitchen
dure. As I was about to follow Mr. Wolley saised hauld of me slave.

“Delia!” ses he, wispering excitedly, “is _Claire_ doon stares?”

[Illustration:

  “‘Go away John! Go away!’ ses she, ‘you shan’t open the dure.’”
]

“N-no—yes—indade I don’t know sir” ses I and I picked up me aprun and
begun to cry into it.

We disinded to me kitchin—Mr. Wolley, Mr. James and auld Mr. Dudley, who
shtumbled on the dark steps and sneezed whin he got to the bottom. In
the kitchin we cum upon a straynge site. Miss Claire was standing wid
her back aginst me china closet; her eyes were big and wild looking, and
she kept talking to Mr. John who stud befure her.

“Go away, John! Go away!” ses she. “You shan’t open the dure! You
shan’t! You shan’t!” ses she. Then she seen us all and she guv a little
cry.

“Delia! O Delia!” ses she, “don’t let him. He—he soospicts sumthing,”
ses she, and then she poot her hed down on me shoulder and burst into
teers.

I herd Mr. Harry moving in the closet, and I belave the yung chap must
have herd Miss Claire weeping, for joost as she boorst into teers, he
forced open the dure. For a moment he stud blinking, and thin he seen us
all. He guv a look first at his father and as the auld gintleman wint
tord him he drew himsilf up stiff and faced him.

“Well sir!” ses the auld fellow, choking wid rage, “so this is whare
ye’ve been spinding your avenings—in the kitchen of these contemtyble
pinny-a-liners.”

“One moment” ses the lad, and suddintly he turned to Miss Claire, and
poot an arm about her, but befure he cud draw her to him, Mr. James had
dashed forward.

“Dam you!” ses he, “tak your hands aff me sister!” Wid that he rinched
thim apart.

Yung Dudley toorned very pail, but he smiled quarely, as he moved tord
the dure.

“Claire!” ses he, spaking clear over the heds of ivery wan, “raymimber
darlint that we love aich other. All will cum rite yet deerest” ses he.

Thin ignoaring and pooshing past his little angry father he made his way
to the bastemint dure and out.

Mr. Dudley stud a minit looking aboot him his thin lips poorsed ap in a
snarling shmile. He adrissed himself to Mr. Wolley, but his eyes was on
Miss Claire.

“Me sun” ses he “is yung and rash. This is not the first time I have
been obleeged to cum in person to extrycate him from sich a scrape.
Forchunatly” ses he “we expict him to make an airly marruge. I was
talking to his finansay’s father to-day and its aboot desided that the
yung fokes will both be sint abrord nixt week. Good avening sir” ses he
“You will not be thrubbled again” ses he. Thin, still smiling in that
nasty insoolting way of his, he bowed and wint.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER XXIII

                                NEXT DAY


After the sad ivints of the disthressful day I wint to sleep wid a hevvy
hart, but sorrer a bit of paceful sleep did I get. I drimt that Minnie
do be cuming to tak my place wid the Wolley family. By desateful words
and ackshons she have worked upon the feelings of Miss Claire and now
its me the family do be blaming for the thrubbles. I do be weeping fit
to make a hart of stone ake and telling Miss Claire its me thats been a
true and loving girl, a foolish victim of the sinful Minnie. But in me
dream Miss Claire refoosed to look at me at all at all, and its wirrah,
wirrah, I be crying in me sleep. Thin I herd somewan whispering at me
eer.

“Delia! Delia!”

I set up wildly in me bed, and there I seen Miss Claire in the moonlite.

“Its I, Claire—don’t be fritened, Delia” ses she.

“My God! Miss” ses I “ye do be after scaring a body. Whats the thrubble
darlint” for shes neeling by me bed crying fit to brake her hart.

After a bit she looked up and ses:

“Theyve been watching me all avening. They’ll niver let me be alone wid
you agin. You see papa ses your to blame, and James ses that if you
hadn’t incoraged us to yuse your kitchen and——”

I set up and shuk me fist.

“Ef Mr. James” ses I “has anny crittersickem to be after making on a
poor loan hardworking girl he’d better spake to me.”

“Oh Delia” ses she “plase don’t get excited. Lissen. I’m not to be
house-kaper anny longer. I don’t know how Harry and I will see aich
other, and Oh Delia,” ses she, saizing me by the shouwlder, “Did you
heer him say that he—he loved me?”

“That I did darlint” ses I, “so don’t you be after wurrying, for all the
avil minded brothers in the warld, all the cross eyed, hard harted,
black sowled, crool fathers and mothers cant coom betune a pare of
swateharts whin troo love is after stipping in.”

“Yes” ses she airnestly “but do you relly think he ment it?”

“_Ment_ it! Its ashamed I am of you Miss Claire. Is it misdouting the
woord of Mr. Dudley, you be, and he as foine a yung chap as iver stepped
alive?”

The teers dryed up like magick, and she smiled as swately as a aingel.
“Yes” ses she “he _did_ mean it, and all _will_ cum rite, for love” ses
she “will shurely foind a way.”

“That it will” ses I.

Well, thin she wint to bed, and I belave slipt sowndly, for her cheeks
were pink as roses in the marning, and her eyes brite and luvly.

She ses “Good marning everybody” in a brave gay toan whin she cam to the
brikfust table, wid the intyre family setting there and waiting in
agunny for her to apeer, all suffering wid the thort of her broken hart.

Mr. John lifts oop his paper, and I seen him frowning like to brake his
face behind it—hes that ankshiss to keep back a teer. Auld Mr. Wolley
blew his nose like it was a throompet. Mr. James swollers his coffee red
hot, and Mrs. Wolley tuk to crying to hersilf. Miss Claire guv a kiss to
little Willy and wan to her father. Then she et her brikfust, beeming on
everybody.

After brikfust Mrs. Wolley cam into the kitchen and guv me the orders
for the day. I herd Mr. Wolley’s ortermobile and looking from me winder
seen him go by wid Miss Claire setting by his side, and Mr. John and
James in the tonno. Mr. Billy wint out to his sand pile and Mrs. Wolley
left me in peese.

It was baking day and I had jest set me bred into the pans for the fynal
raysing and had opened the oven dure to see how me spunge cake was
doing, whin I herd a bit of muvement at me back. I turned aboot, and let
out a turrible yell, for there was me frind from the Dudley’s. He do be
standing in me kitchin bauld and brazen as if he belonged there, and
theres a larf in his eye and on his bauld mouth too.

Now if theres wan thing bad for spoonge cake it do be a sudden bang or
noyse. Its bownd to mak the finest cake fall down. Silinse is the rool
wid all good cooks whin the cakes in the ooven. I throo wan look at me
sponge cake and shure enuff the preshus stuff had fallen flat. Thin I
rose and faced aboot on the impident yung spalpeen standing there.

“Its plane to see” ses I me hands on me hips “whare you hale frum. Its
ashamed I am to acnolege you a coontryman of me own, and its lissons in
foine manners ye mite be after taking” ses I “from the foine cortsheeis
yung gintleman wid hoom ye have the dayly honour of assoshyating.”

“Is it the frog ater ye’re maning, Delia deer?” ses he.

“Me name” ses I “Is Miss O’malley, and its no time I’m after having for
the loike of you.” Wid that I picked up me chopping bowl and wint to
wark upon the hash, a sartin loonch dispised by Mr. James whos after
wanting stake wid every meel.

Mr. Mulvaney guv a larfing look at the dure lately intercated by me,
then he walked over to it carelessly and shut it closed. Wid that I
almost chopped me thoomb off in me rage. He cum over to the table and
set upon it wid his foot a swinging. Then he leaned tord me and
wispered.

“Delia darlint” ses he “what wud ye be after giving me for a love
letter.”

I sthopped me chopping, and guv him wan look of contimpt and scorn.

“Larry Mulvaney” ses I “if ye’re wanting to no the throo value of the
artucle you minshun I’ll tell you. Its a clout over the eer I’d be
giving you for reword” ses I and I chopped feercely.

“But suppose” ses he, leening a bit neerer “that the litter was not for
_you_.”

At that I stopped me chopping.

“If its Minnie ye’re swate on——” but here he interrupted and took the
paper from his coat and tossed it up in the air.

“Its for Miss Wolley” ses he, “and its from Mr. Harry himself.”

I guv such a joomp me chopping boal wint over, wid all me prishus hash
on the flure, and that the last morsil of meet in the house for loonch.

“My God, Mr. Mulvaney!” ses I, “do you mean it?”

He’s very lofty now, and rising oop ses hortily:

“I’d like to see Miss Wolley if you plaze, _Miss O’Malley_” ses he wid
emfasis.

“Shes out” ses I. He moved tord the dure, me aafter him, and I cort him
by his slave.

[Illustration:

  “‘But suppose,’ ses he, leening a bit nearer, ‘that the litter was not
    for you?’”
]

“Guv it to me Larry!” I begged, “Its niver a chance the family will guv
you to hand it to the puir child and shure if ye’ll jest hand it to me
I’ll slip it into her hand widout a sole in the house gessing the
trooth.”

But Mr. Mulvaney put the letter into his brist pocket. Then he crossed
his arms, and stares at me.

“Delia” ses he, “tell me the thruth. Are you sweet on the Frinchman?”

“Thats me personal affare, Mr. Moolvaney” ses I.

“Becorse if ye are” ses he “its only fare to let ye know hes meerly
after ye-re hard airned savings. The Frinch are slick, but its a true
hart ye’re needing to leen upon.”

“Larry Mulvaney” ses I “will you or will you not be after handing me the
letter for Miss Claire?”

“On wan condition” ses he.

“Spake it” ses I.

“Guv me a kiss, darlint” ses he.

“I’ll be dummed first” ses I wid indigation.

“Be dummed then” ses he, “but lissen swatehart. Mr. Dudley do be sinding
Mr. Harry aff to Yurope to-morrow marning airly. Its the long distunse
cure the auld gintleman do be after expicting for the lad. Now Mr. Harry
has rote a litter of ixplanashuns to Miss Claire appoynting an intervew.
So Delia darlint its oop to you. Shall Miss Claire have the litter or
shall she not?”

“My God Mr. Mulvaney” ses I “do you mean to say ye’d be holding back the
litter from the puir yung thing?”

“Oonless” ses he, “you guv me a kiss.”

“Tak it then” ses I “and be dummed to you.”

Wid that he guv a joomp, saysed me about the waste and kissed me smack
on the lips, and me riddy to sink into the airth for shame, for shure
its the first time a lad do be giving me a kiss. He slipped the letter
into me hand. Wid that I cam to me sinses and struck out wid me free
hand. But Larry guv a larf at the smack I’m giving him and ses he:

“Delia darlint thats nothing but a love smack. Goodbye mavourneen, it’ll
be manny a day befure ye’ll forgit the kissing I’ve given you.”

Whin he was gone I looked about me kitchin, hardly knowing what I was
seeing, wid the ixcipshun of the hash on the flure. Prisintly I herd the
family coming home and I sneeked upstares hoping to get the chance of
seeing Miss Claire alone. The family was on the porch, and I herd Mr.
James reeding aloud from a litter in his hand:

“Deer Miss Wolley” he red, “me sun sales for Yurope per S. S. Germanya
to-morrow morning at 7, and is accumpanied by Miss Una Robbins and her
father.”

Thin followed a few more wards in which the auld scallywag
congrachulated the puir yung crachure upon her iscape from a young
fellow whos intinshuns were not seerius since he was all the time
ingaged to another girl and he begged to remane hers fathefully S. Judd
Dudley.

I left the family looking at aich other in silince and wint oop thray
stips at a time to the child’s room. I nocked saftly.

“Miss Claire!” I called.

I herd her sobbing inside and I called agin, “Miss Claire darlint!”

At that she called:

“Go away Delia! Go away!”

“Miss Claire!” I called wid me mouth to the keyhole “for the love of God
open the dure.” After a moment I herd the key turn and thin she opened
it joost a crack or two. I throost in me hand and shuvved the letter in
at the dure. I herd her guv a little moofled scrame and thin she was
sylint. I stole away down stares and cryed in peece in me dish towel.
Shure I’d be giving the bauld lad a hoondred kisses more, ef he were to
ask me again for thim joost now.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XXIV

                                NEXT DAY


At 4 A.M. Miss Claire cum into me room. She’s all dressed and she shuk
me a bit and brung me me clothes. “Dress quickly Delia” ses she, “I’m
going to meet him.”

“Mr. Harry?” ses I. She nods, her eyes shining both wid teers and
smiles.

“Hurry!” ses she, “Its still dark and I’m afrade to go doon stares
alone.”

I was into me clothes in a minit and thegither we wint down the back
stares. We cum to the bastemint and Miss Claire opened the back dure,
and stud there waiting. There was not a bit of sun at the our, and it
getting tord the fall the air do be chilly. Ivery whare we looked there
seemed to be oogly gray clouds in the sky and the grass do be thick wid
hevvy jew. But Miss Claire waited on at the dure, and wotched the sky,
“For” ses she, “he sed at sunrise.”

After a bit I seen a speck of gold cum crapping into the gray of the sky
and it grew a wee bit liter. Then I seen Mr. Harry cum acrost the lon.
Miss Claire seen him too and she wint out a step or two to meet him.
Then he seen her and he cum running tord her, wid his arms hild wide
out, and she started running tord him likewise, till they cum to aich
other, and then wid never a word they were in aich other’s arms, he
toorning oop her face and looking at it. Thin soodently she put it doon
aginst his coat (jest as I had dun wid that bold Larry) and she begun to
cry saftly joost as if her hart was broken.

“Lissen Claire, me darlint” ses he, “I love you! We love aich other. The
warld itself cannot divide us.”

“But your going away! Your going away!” ses she, “Your going away!” and
thin she looked up at him, and hild his arms tite as tho she wud not let
him go.

“Only for a little wile” ses he “joost to consillerate dad. He thinks”
ses he smilling scornfully, “that I’m not in airnest darlint. He offers
to put me to the test. He’s guv me his ward that he’ll put no obsticle
in me parth if I’ll be gone for 6 months. Darlint” ses he “you kin wate
that long for me. Otherwise I don’t see what we can do. I haven’t a red
cent and we cuddent live on nothing.”

But she still sobbed a bit aginst his coat, and she ses:

“And Una Robbins is going too. Is she—are you ingaged to her?” ses she.

“I’m ingaged to _you_” ses he so vylently that she larfed a bit, and
then he tuk her hand and slipped a ring on wan of her fingies:

“Its a cheep little thing” ses he “It was me mothers. When father gave
it to her they was puir—puir as—er—Delia there—he a plane worker in a
masheen shop and she a cuntry teecher.”

Then he kissed the finger wid the ring on, and they put there arms aboot
aich other and clung a bit thegither.

“Goodbye my love!” ses he.

“Goodbye Harry!” ses she.

They seppyrated for a sicond and wint away aich from the uther. Thin
they flew back to aich other and clung a bit again. And agin they
seppyrated and she run tord the bastemint dure wid her hand to her
throte like she was choking. She roon down the stares and I tuk her into
me arms. She was shaking and trimbling like a child. Then we herd Mr.
Harry’s voyse;

“Claire!” he called and he cum down the stares.

“Oh God!” ses he “I cant do it” ses he. And again they clung. They broke
away agin, she pushing him along.

“Goodbye” ses she. “Now go—before they cum” ses she. Then when he was
gone she run up the stares and bolted the dure. I herd him at the other
side, pooshing at it.

“Claire! Claire! Claire!” he called, and she inside: “Harry! Harry! Oh
my love!” ses she. “Goodbye, goodbye!”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XXV

                             TEN DAYS LATER


“Good marning Delia” ses Mrs. Bang (the widdy acrost the strate) “Is
anny wan at home?”

“Oh yes mam” ses I, litting her in throo the fly dure. “Mr. John” ses I
“is after shaving his face mam” ses I “Will ye wait till hes throo?”

“Why anny of the family will do” ses she, flushing.

“Ye’ll find Mr. Wolley” ses I “in the stable. Hes oondernathe the
ortermobile as yushul. Mrs. Wolley is after taking her noonday syester,
as Mr. James calls it and Miss Claire is in her room. Mr. James has gone
to town. Mr. Billy is hilping his daddy.”

“I’ll see Miss Wolley” ses she hortily.

I wint oop to tell Miss Claire. She looked a bit poot out.

“Wheres John?” she arsked at wanse.

“Shaving miss” ses I.

She wint down stares, and she and the widder kissed. I wint abboot me
wark doosting the dyning rume, and wiping oop the parkay flure wid a
greesy cloth, manewhile linding an eer to the illygunt convysashun of
the widdy. She do be fond of the sownd of her own voyce, and she
threated the puir yung crachure to sooch an indless strame of sinsliss
gossip as iver I had the misforthune to lissen to befure. Puir Miss
Claire sat wid her chin on her hand, pretinding to lissen but heering
not a word of the widdy’s discurse. After a bit the widdy seemed to tak
notiss of her silinse.

“You seem a bit distray this marning deer” ses she.

Miss Claire set up.

“Oh no no” ses she, “I—I’m all rite Mrs. Bangs.”

The widder leened back and fanned hersilf carelissly.

“So Harry Dudley has gone” ses she, wotching Miss Claire. “It was very
suddint I belave.”

Miss Claire was all awake now, white and red in turn, but she sed
nuthing.

“And Una Robbins is gone too” ses the widder. Suddintly she closed up
her fan sharply. “Do you no” ses she “I want to say sumthing to you
orful badly but I feel I haven’t the rite to—not being a mimber of your
family.”

Joost then Mr. John cum down, looking very spry and neet wid his new
shaven face and hare frish brushed.

“Hello” ses he, and shuk the widder’s hands. “Are you going Claire?” ses
he, for she was going tord the stares.

“If Mrs. Bangs will excuse me” ses she, “I’ll finish the litter I was
writing. I’ll be back shortly.”

Whin she was gone, Mr. John pulled up a chare and sat forward looking at
the widder who opened her fan agin and was looking at the pichure on it.

“Mr. Wolley” ses she suddintly, “I’m afrade I’ve offinded your sister.
Oh deer” ses she, “I do want to interfeer in the affares of this foolish
and impracticul family. I’m shure” ses she, “If I only had the
opporchunity I cud make both Claire and your brother Jimmy see the errow
of their ways. Take Jimmy for instunse. He’s like a prickly porkypine
lately, riddy to scrach wun if wun dares to aven look at him. Look at
the state of his lons. Why the grarss is a mile hy and the weeds have
all cum up in the carrage drives. Why I cud tell him in a minit how to
rid the drives of weeds. Salt—salt’s the thing! Jest spred it on the
drives. It’ll kill the weeds at wunse. But ah deer me” ses she sighing
hevily, “I’ve not the rite to advise Jimmy or cunsole Claire.”

“And why have you not?” ses Mr. John camly, tho I seen him move his
fingers about in the nerviss way he has.

“Why have I not the rite?” repeets the widder, opening her eyes
innersintly. “Becos I’m not wan of the family” ses she.

Mr. John got up, tuk a cupple of nerviss walks acros the room, and thin
soodintly wint back to the widder. He set himsilf doon on the arm of her
chare leaned over her. She did’nt boodge an inch, tho I seen her get red
oonder the look he guv her.

“Jane” ses he, “_be_ wan of the family.”

“Good grashis!” ses she, leaning back so her neck nachully fitted in the
coorve of his arm, “are you _proposing_ to me, Mr. Wolley?” ses she.

“Yes Jane” ses he, “I’m orfully in love wid you.”

Wid that she tilted back her hed, guv him a long look, then delibritly
orferred him her lips.

“Hilp yersilf John” ses she, “I’m yours.”

She’s larfing while she speaks, but she’s crying a bit jest like ivery
other woman whin he’s doon wid her.

Mr. John who is a fare sized gintleman slipped down from the arm of the
chare to the seet beside her. The widder is pretty ploomp hersilf and
they squeezed up closely thegither, leaning aginst aich other and
spooning like yung fokes, he being thirty if he’s a day and she a
widder.

“Now that I’ve got the rite to interfeer” ses she after a moment, “I’m
going to do it wid a vinginse. Hold on a bit” ses she, pooshing him aff
from her, “Now lissin to sense, John Wolley. Go upstares and tell Claire
I want to spake to her.”

“Spake to her to-morrow” ses he.

“No” ses she, shaking her hed desidedly, “John” ses she, “you an I have
a whole life yet to spind thegither. I can spare you for a little wile.
I came to-day upon a partikuler errant. I had sumthing to say to Claire,
but first it was necissery for me to have the rite to say it. The
proposul and—ah—acciptunse was a meer dyagrisshun, and wile I confiss to
a shameliss weekniss for your shtyle of wooing darlint, yit I’m not to
be swurved from the objick of me misshun. There! Go and get Claire, and
whin I’m throo wid her cum back” ses she.

Finally, wid more airging, she injooced the puir lover to go after his
sister, and whin he’s brot Miss Claire back, she waves her hands airily
and ses:

“Begone! I want to spake to your sister aloan.”

Whin they were aloan she farely beemed upon Miss Claire, and then:

“And now to resoom deer” ses she “I was about to say sumthing to you
whin your brother interripted.”

“Mrs. Bangs” ses Miss Claire, wid agytashun, “_plase_ don’t—don’t talk
to me aboot——”

“Harry?” ses the widder, wid her eyes raysed up. “Why me deer” ses she,
“who has a better rite to talk to you about your luvver than yure sister
deer” ses she swately.

“My——” began Miss Claire, and stared at her wid round eyes. Suddintly,
she saised hauld of the widder’s hand and ses she wid excitement:

“You don’t mean——”

The widder nodded, the teers cuming into her eyes.

“But—but he’s a confirmed old bacheller” ses Miss Claire.

“Is he?” ses the widder. “Well all good things cum to an end. However
John and I are beside the quiston. I merely told you as an excuse for
seeming to pry into you sacred affares. Give me a kiss now and poar out
your hart and sole into me sympythetic eers.”

Then they kissed and the widder pushed Miss Claire into a chare, and set
down hersilf. Befure the girl can spake she ses hersilf crossly:

“Now will you tell me why you were such a little goose as to let Harry
Dudley slip throo your fingers? My deer” ses she interrupting Miss
Claire as she started in to spake. “The boy was mad—clane daft about
you. Now ansser me this you notty girl, why didnt you take him?”

“I did—that is——” began Miss Claire, whin the widder grabbed her hand
and looked at the ring.

“Aha!” ses she “cort you thin, did’nt I? Now” ses she “whare were your
sinses under the sarcumstunses whin you let him go away at wanse—and of
all things in the warld wid Una Robbins.”

“_Wid_ her!” ses Miss Claire.

“Yes” “It was an artful move of old S. Judd and her father. My dear, Una
is the most rickluss flurt this side of heven. Why its only 3 yeers ago
she was ingaged to Harry. They luvved for a moonth and broak the
ingagemint a day later. Don’t look so hurt. They werent achully in
love—jest playing. Now Una has had her own way with men ivver sinse she
wore long drisses. Thin the Wolley family moved out to the Poynt. There
was a sartin rood and surly mimber of this crazy family wid a
constitooshinul dislike for magnuts and there dorters. Miss Una chose to
be intrusted in him, of all men. To her surprise her advanses were
rebuffed. She achully disinded to pursooing him, as you no, and finully
in despurashun—as I larned from her own lips—she sank so low as to
insinnyvate to the loonytick that she _luved_ him!”

“O” ses Miss Claire, “You meen our Jimmy.”

“The terrible Jimmy!” ses the widder, nodding.

“She _told_ him——”

“As good as told him.”

“And he——?”

“He! Ye gods in hiven” ses the widdy throwing up her hands, “he cuvvered
up his eers wid his fingys, guv a look of commingled horrow and dispare,
and _ran away from her_. The follering nite” wint on the widder, “Mr. S.
Judd Dudley called to see her papa, and the marning after that Miss Una
was packed bag and baggage off to Yurope. Now lissen to me words of
wisdom and expeerinse. If those 2 sore yung indivijools don’t cum to sum
sintimintul oonderstanding on this voyage out to Yurope thin my name is
not Jane Bangs and will niver be Jane Wolley.”

Miss Claire sed never a word, but she looked at the widder beseechingly.

“To begin wid” ses the widder, “Its all your brother John’s folt. If
he’d proposed to me a month ago I cud have ingineered the hole affare
happily for this family. As it is now” ses she, “ye’ve acted like a
little fool, and Harry like a big wan. Sakes alive!” ses she, “why didnt
you _make_ him stay at home? You had him at the sycological moment” ses
she. “Do you suppose I’d have let John Wolley sale away at sooch a time?
Not by a long chot. Una is sore—broosed—hartsick—hurt clane throo and
throo. She’s desprut. A girl in that condishun has but one
resoarce—matrimunney—wid anuther fellow. Now Harry.”

“Oh” ses Miss Claire, “please Mrs. Bangs don’t say annything to me about
him. I _know_ he loves me oanly.”

She cuvvered her face wid her hands convoolsively, and me shtopping in
me wark in the dining-room lissening by the dure, and reddy to bat the
interfeering widder on the hed wid me dooster.

“Now me deer” ses the widder, “you must counteract at wanse the evil of
this long oshun voyuge. You must follow the pair at wanse to Yurope.”

“I? O Mrs. Bangs, indade we arent rich people. We cudden’t afford it”
ses Miss Claire, “and besides, Jimmy may cross in the fall. He’s been
offered the London corryspundint post for the Planut.”

“He’d better accipt at wanse” ses the widder promply “as for you——”

Just thin in walked Mr. John and brort an ind to the paneful interfoo.
The widder found hersilf aloan wid the sintimintul gintleman looking at
her tinderly. Her own face is poockered oop wod exaspenashun.

“John Wolley!” ses she, “I feel like shaking you.”

“What have I dun, Jane?” ses he reproatchfully.

“Why dident you propose to me a month ago?” ses she crossly.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XXVI

                              A WEEK LATER


This marnin’ wen I wint to open the door to tak in the papers a strange
site greeted me eyes. “My God!” ses I aloud, “is it snowing in Orgust.”

Thin I seen Mr. John. He had wun of me dish pans in his hands and it
seemed to be full of holes, fer sumthing white do be scattering from the
bottom of it all over the place. I throwed up me hands in horrow. Just
thin I seen the widdy, and she likewise had a pan and was scattering the
white doost in another place. She guv me a smile:

“Good marning Delia!” ses she, “we’re goin’ to surprise Mr. Jimmy. We’re
pooting sumthing on his drives wich will kill all grass and weeds. It’s
salt,” ses she. “My conshunse John Wolley!” she screemed, “what are you
doing?”

Mr. John was bizzy wid his pan around Miss Claire’s floury hidge wich is
a sorry enuff looking hidge, being that the weeds and grarss have grown
out thick wid only a poor little flour to pike up its hed here and
there. Mr. John do be throwing the salt wid a ginerous hand over the sad
looking hidge.

“Why,” ses he, “I’m killing the weeds in poor little Claire’s garden.”

The widdy threw doon her pan and set upon it.

“You do beat the dooch!” ses she, “why you gander,” ses she, “doant you
know ye’ll kill the _flours_ too. John Wolley, I’ve harf a mind to shake
you and I _will_ too!” ses she. Wid that she roon acrost to him, wid her
hands hild out—but befure she can tooch him, he grabbed her aboot the
waste, and kissed her plump on the lips.

“You retch!” ses she, “and befure Delia too! Oh-h!” ses she, and stamps
her foot.

Its cleening day. Nobody but a dummed eediot wud put the desateful
looking matting down on dacint flures. The doost and dirt finds a
natchell place to settle down betwane the cracks. As I was rubbing it
over wid a damp cloth in Mr. Wolley’s stoody he came in wid the male. In
wan hand he held a grate boonch of letters, in the other one ploomp fine
looking litter by itsilf. He looks queer.

“Has Mr. James gone to town yet?” he asks.

“No sir” ses I. “Its riting at home he is to-day. He’s in his room,
sir.”

“Ah!” ses the auld gintleman, and joost thin Miss Claire cum into the
room.

Her cheeks are flooshed and she looks excited and ankshus.

“You have a letter for me papa, havent you?” ses she.

The auld gintleman had throost the fat letter hastily into his pocket.
As Miss Claire spoke he now fussed over the boonch in his uther hand.

“Let me see” ses he, going over thim, “No—theres nuthing my deer” ses
he.

She seemed so disappoynted that for a moment she joost stared at the
auld gintleman. Then she ses gintly:

“Papa, wasnt there an English male in yisterday?”

“I belave there was” ses he.

She put out her hand impetchussly and ses she:

“Let _me_ see, papa?”

She wint over the letters wan be wan. She picked out wan little roll,
and she ses:

“Nothing—nothing at all for me—ixcipt this.” Thin she wint out from the
room suddintly.

The auld gintleman looked after her wid a look fool of compashun and
guilt. Then he sneeked out of the room.

“You auld divil!” ses I to mesilf, “Its a letter ye’ve got in your
pockit for Miss Claire, and the puir thing shull have it if I have to
turn thafe to get it for her.”

Wid that I wint after the auld rascal. I hurd the dure of Mr. James’s
room shut, and I wint into the bathroom adjyning, and wid wan eer to the
dure I lissened.

“James——” ses Mr. Wolley stipping in.

“What the——” began Mr. James and I herd him hopping up in his seet. “I’m
bizzy father” ses he. “I must get out this artuckle at latest by noon
to-day” ses he “What is it? What is it?”

“James” ses Mr. Wolley, “I’m afrade yure sister——”

“For hivin’s sake father” ses the lad “hoory up. Jest what is it?”

There was silinse for a moment, juring which I knowed from instink Mr.
Wolley had tuk out Miss Claire’s litter and shown it to his son. I
prissed up close aginst the dure, but the key was inside and I cud see
not a thing. Then I herd Mr. Wolley say:

“You see it is as we feered. They are corry——”

“Hauld on!” ses Mr. James lowering his voyce, and again there followed a
sylinse. Suddintly the dure flew open and I fell upon me face into the
room. Mr. James saized me by the neck of me gown and hauled me oop.

“Delia!” ses he, “ef I ever catch you at sich a thrick again, I’ll—I’ll
throw you out of the winder” ses he. “Now git!” ses he, and I sloonk aff
in shame.

I was coming down the stares, skurce looking whare I wint, whin all of a
suddint I seen sumthing which sint me hart flying into me mouth. There
by the winder was Miss Claire stritched out on the floor. Her face
looked orful white, and for a moment the dredful thort cam into me hed
that the poor yung thing was ded. I screamed wid frite and agunny, and I
joomped doon the rist of the stares and run to the child. The paper was
on the floor beside her—a torn peece of noospaper and I seen the pincil
marks in blue upon it. The family cam rooshing down whin they herd me
scream and at the site of Miss Claire they all seemed about to faynt
also. Mrs. Wolley guv a friteful scream, and Mr. John throo his arms
aboot her and put her into a chare. Mr. James picked up the bit of
paper, turned it over and red:

    “Mr. and Mrs. Barclay Robbins announces the ingagement of their
    dorter, Miss Una, to Mr. Harry Judd Dudley, son of S. Judd
    Dudley of New York. The widding will tak place Choosday the 21st
    of October.”

There was silince then, the hole family looking at aich other and then
at puir Miss Claire. Then Mr. Wolley spoke, and his auld voyce trimbled.

“Boys” ses he, “carry your sister gintly to her room.”

It were a sorry loonch the family et. Mr. John skurcely opened his mouth
wanse to spake, and Mr. James spoke only wanse. He sed camly:

“Father” ses he “I’ve desided to refuse the London corryspondunt job.”

Mr. Wolley turned feercely upon little innersint Billy:

“Billy” ses he, “ef you play wid yure salt at the table wanse again” ses
he, “I’ll tak me razer strap to you.”

Thin he tuk 2 angry bits at me rolls, and stomped oot to the frunt
porth. Looking out I seen him scowling at the Dudley house.

Neyther Miss Claire or her mother cum doon to loonch.

“Mr. John” ses I whin all had left the table ixcipt him: “Is Miss Claire
all rite now?”

He put his fingers into the fingy bowl and wiped them thortfully.

“I’m going across the street” ses he, “I belave Jane can make it all
rite” ses he, as if spaking to himsilf.

I was washing the family dishes in the butler’s pantry, when I seen Miss
Claire cum saftly doon the stares. She’d got on a little pink drissing
gown over her nite dress and her long yillow hare was hanging all aboot
her. She seen me looking at her, but whin I wint forward to spake to her
she made a little impashunt moshun wid her hand and I stud back. She
wint over to the tillyfone and guv a number:

Then I herd her say:

“Is this the Planet? Yiss, Well I want the idiotoryell departmint.
Hello” ses she, “I want to spake to Mr. Allun—Allun—I sed Allun” ses she
gitting exsited, and she spelled the name. She wated a bit, and thin:
“Good-morning Mr. Allen” ses she, “This is Miss Wolley—Wolley—Claire
Wolley,” ses she. “Now lissen—annownce me ingagemint in to-morrow
marning’s _Planut_—and say that I deny it but its so” ses she beginning
to larf hysturicully. “Whats that?” ses she, “Oh his name—his name you
said. Why how silly of me. His name is—er—Stevin Vandybilt. Oh thank
you” ses she. “_I_ hope so too” ses she. “Whats that? Oh thanks. Yes,
yes of coarse hes wan of _the_ Vandybilts. Goodbye.”

She toorned aboot, an I seen her grarsp hold of the back of a chare. She
leaned aginst it, and she begun to shake, and thin she larfed. She
larfed so hard and queerly that she fell upon her knees. Then I ran oop
to her, and thried to put me arms about her, but she guv me a feerce
poosh, and ses she wid her eyes flushing:

“Don’t tooch me! Don’t dare put yure hand upon me. Its all yure folt. It
was you who brort us thegither. It was you who—Ah hahahahaha!” ses she,
lafing and crying thegither.

The widder cam in wid Mr. John and she run over to Miss Claire wid her
arms spred out.

“O me deer! me deer!” ses she, “I worned you—I told you.”

But Miss Claire has cum back to her sinses.

“Mrs. Bangs” ses she “I am not in need of inny sympithy. Excuse me. Good
marning” ses she, and wint up the stares and back to her room. We hurd
the dure banged tite.

The widder burst into teers, and as fur me, puir loan onhappy crachure
that I be I betuk mesilf to me ritched kitchen and cryed me hart out
into me clane starched table aprun.

I thort the day wud niver ind and whin the Frinch charfer from the
Dudleys came over, its small eers I had for his foine spache.

“Museer” ses I “its a hart broken wumman I am, and its small cumfut I’m
taking in yer perlite langwidge to-nite.”

“Mumsell Delia” ses he, “belave me on me sacred onor, I adoar you wid me
hart and soal. Be mine” ses he.

Mr. Mulvaney caming in joost thin, guv a larf at the Frinchman, which
made the puir museer furyiss.

“Mumsell” ses he, “I be not of the for chune hoonting sort as yere frind
there” ses he.

“Whats that ye’re after saying” ses Larry, at wanse. “Did you spake me
name?” ses he.

The Frinchman stud his grownd bravely, and droring himsilf prowdly up
faced Mr. Moolvaney wid a stare.

“Jaccuse” ses he, “Museer Mulvaney of wooing the lady wid his eye on her
forchune. Jaccuse”—ses he, but Mr. Mulvaney had him by the collar of his
coat and museer was setting outside on the lon befure I cud rise to
protist. Whin Mr. Mulvaney cam back I’m that insinsed wid his avil
manners and the revylashun of his meen and greedy caracter that I
skurcely cud aven look at him.

“Mr. Mulvaney” ses I “its a puir hard working girl I am, and its a
mistake ye’re making in yure for chune hoonting hart whin ye think I’m
after being rich. Ah go!” ses I, “I’m doon wid avery wan of you.”

And I wint opp to me milincully room, me hart sore and aking, for Miss
Claire do be hating me feercely now, and Larry Mulvaney is no better
than the Frinchman, but is after me puir bit of forchune. Ah wirrah,
wirrah, wirrah! Its a sorry day whin me muther bore me.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER XXVII

                              THE NEXT DAY


Miss Claire was down at brikfust brite and airly. I seen her setting at
her plate—waiting for the family to appeer. Her eyes and cheeks wuz
unnatshully brite.

Mr. John cam in first. He wint over to her chare and guv her a rell
luving kiss.

“Go to your seet John” ses she “I’ve sumthing to show you.” Wid that she
pushes over the paper to him and intercates a place wid her finger.

“Claire!” ses he starting oop “My dear girl,” ses he, “whot on airth
doos this mane.”

Jist thin Mr. James cum in and Mr. Wolley close on his heels—Miss Claire
picked up the paper and parsses it along gayly to Mr. James saying as
she duss so:

“It’s _only_ the enouncemint of me ingagement” ses she.

“The whot!” ses Mr. Wolley.

Mr. James’ face looked tired and haggard and his big eyes have lost
there fighting look. He turned them orlmost sadly on his sister.

“Claire,” ses he, “you’re—you’re acting hastily,” ses he.

“Not at all,” ses she, smiling—over her cup of corfee. “I’ve nown Mr.
Vandybilt iver since I wuz at Vassa. I niver told any of you aboot
it—but—but—we’ve practically bin ingaged—fer yeers—thet is not
formally.”

The family sed nothing and I wint to ansser the door as the bell wuz
ringing furyissly. The widder cum in and wint widout being invited
strate to the dining-room. She also has a paper in her hand and widout a
word to the rest of the famly she pulled oop a chare and sat doon beside
Miss Claire.

“Claire” ses she “I had just finished reeding a letter from Una Robbins
when I chanced to glance at me paper. I saw the announcemint. Child,
whot does it _meen_?”

“Why,” ses Miss Claire smiling brillyuntly—“Exackly whot it ses.”

The widder luked soospishus and thin she ses wid emfasis:

“Well I’ll not congratulate you. It’s a mistake—all rong,” ses she, “Oh
deer! oh deer! Oh deer!”

She turned suddintly upon Mr. James.

“Jimmy,” ses she, “I notissed just now when I minshuned the name of Una
Robbins that you winced a bit. Now look here boy” ses she “Una _may be_
ingaged to Harry—and she may marry him too—but let me tell you” ses she,
“a girl who’s ingaged to wan man and rites ten pages about anuther man
to a frind is worth invistygating. Take my advice, Jimmy deer,” ses she
“and go to Londoon town post haste. What are _you_ doing Claire?” ses
she, for the girl has gone to the desk in the hall and is marking the
paper wid a red pencil. She rolled it oop and rote upon the cover, thin
she wint over to her father—

“Papa!” ses she, “There’s _my_ mail. Hurry it aff, won’t you,” ses she.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER XXVIII

                                NEXT DAY


I was doing up the bed in Mr. Wolley’s room whin Miss Claire walked in.
She wint into her father’s closet and cam out wid her arms fool of his
cotes. These she set on the bed and camly wint to wark sarching throo
his pockits. After a bit she cam upon what shes looking for—the fat
litter which arrived yisterday. She held it in her hand a sicond her
eyes closing oop. Thin suddintly she wint over to the fire place. She
toar the litter acrosst, invillip and all, then neeling throo it into
the grate and set it on fire. Joost thin her father cam in, and she
looked oop at him and smiles.

“Why Claire” ses he, “what are you doing?”

“Papa” ses she, “sumthing told me that _he_ had ritten. I soospected you
yisterday. I’ve just been burning the litter. Hereafter papa” ses she,
“whin anny more such litters cum, trate thim in the same way—_burn
thim—burn them—burn them_” ses she.

Thin she stared up at him wid her cheeks all red and feverish, and she
cryed out suddintly, “Oh papa! papa!” ses she, crowched doon on the
harth and sobbed wid her face all ooncuvvered and the teers joost poring
down.

“My puir Claire!” ses the auld man brokenly; then he seen me and spoke
in a feerce voyce:

“Lave the room Delia!” ses he.

This arfternoon Mrs. Wolley cum down to the kitchen. She’s very figitty
and nerviss and she skurce looked me in the face at all.

“Delia” ses she, “yure moonth is oop on the 12th. We’ve decided to let
you go.”

I cudn’t spake at all fur the loomp in me mouth. I wint to the sink and
foosed aboot wid the dishes.

Mrs. Wolley continued unasily.

“You understand Delia” ses she, “we’ve no complaint to make aboot you.
You’re a good cook and excellent in ivery way—but Claire—Claire isn’t
very well and we must humour the child. The fack is Delia, the very site
of you seems to recall a sartin unplissant person to her mimmry.”

“Oh ma’am,” ses I, “indade I wud cut me hed orf for Miss Claire, but
indade,” ses I, “it’s sad I’d be to lave the child as such a time. Let
me stay ma’am, if oanly till ye go to town in October.”

“No” ses she, shaking her hed, “it’s better not.”

I set down and thort the matter over. Why shud I be turned out in this
fashun ses I to mesilf. It’s a shame, a crool shame it is. It was thin
Mr. Mulvaney cum sontring in and befure I know wat I’m about I’m telling
him the story of me sorrers.

“Bad cess to thim all!” ses he, “they desarve to lose a fine girl like
you, Delia, and if ye’d lissen to my airging it’s laving thim ye’d be
to-day and stipping wid me over to Father Dugan’s. These Wolleys do be a
trubblesum famly. Shure they’ve toorned the hole poynt oopside doon wid
thrubble. I heer that the Robbins are arfter being beside thimsilves wid
feer of Mr. James. Now Delia” ses he, “ef ye’ll not be heering to the
praste, thin it’s anuther bit of advice I’m arfter giving you. Stip
across to the Widdy Bangs’ house,” ses he, “and tell her your
thrubbles,” ses he. “I’ll bet me job aginst the Frinchman’s that she’ll
fix you all rite wid the family.”

So I wint over to the widdys house. A spoonky little culloured maid
opened the frunt dure. She guv a luk at me face—ignoring me best clothes
on me body and ses she:

“Go to the back dure,” ses she. “_I_ recave me collars there.”

“It’s Mrs. Bangs” ses I “I want to see.”

“Mrs. Bangs,” ses she, “is ingaged wid Mr. Wolley.”

I heerd the widdy’s voyce inside and prisintly she cum oot and ses:

“Hoo is it Lilly,” ses she, (My God! The Nigger’s name was Lilly and she
black as hell).

“Why, it’s Delia!” sez the widdy.

“Can I spake to you a minnit, mam!” ses I.

“Why certinly Delia. Whot is it,” ses she.

I wint to throw me aprun over me hed but fownd I’d left it at home, so I
set up a paneful cry widout it. “Oh wirrah! wirrah!” ses I, “it wuz an
avil day whin I crossed the oshun. Oh mam” sez I, “it’s a cruel warld
and peeple do be hard on a poor hardwarking crachure wid niver a frind
in the world.”

The widdy looked as if she were aboot to larf, but she’s that sorry fer
me she controlled hersilf. She poot her hand on me shoulder and ses she
kindly:

“Cum! What is it, Delia? my deer?”

“Mrs. Wolley do be arfter firing me, Mrs. Bangs,” ses I, “and all
because I’m odyiss in the site of Miss Claire and all because I hilped
her meet Mr. Harry Doodly—the crool faithless good-for-nothing villyun”
ses I.

“You poor crachure,” ses she, “and you want me to spake fur you. Why, of
coorse I will. I’ll go rite over and appeel to Claire’s sinse of
justiss.”

Whin I was gitting ondrissed to-nite I herd me dure opening, and I guv a
lowd yill, fer I’m in me chimmy aloan. As Miss Clair cum in, I rooshed
into me closet, and I spoak to the child frum behind the harf closed
dure.

“What is it darlint?” ses I “Its ashamed I am fur you to see me in
dishabeel and me wid twinty bunyuns on me feet and moles on me ligs and
arms. What is it swatehart?”

“Delia” ses she in the gintlest voyce, “Plase forgive me for my croolty
and ingratichude. I’ve been thortless and oongrateful too” ses she,
spaking into the closet, “for aven oonder the sircumstunses I don’t
regret—Harry. So you’ll stay—won’t you Delia?” ses she.

“Stay miss?” ses I, “Why darlint you cuddent roon me out wid a steem
roller.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XXIX

                              ANOTHER DAY


It do be thray weeks to-day sinse Miss Claire’s after announsing her
ingagemint to Mr. Vandybilt. The family kept silinse upon the subjeck.
Its a straynge and sad house its after being now.

Both Mr. John and James wint back to there rayspictif places in the city
on Siptimber 1st after having spint the intyre summer doing there fine
riting at the hoose.

Mr. James do be a famiss riter and theres hardly a paper pooblished but
has a pichure of himself looking out frum the frunt page, bauld and
agrissive looking, for shure the lad do have his back oop aginst the
intyre warld. Hes joyned the Soshilist and Anykist ordher I’m after
reeding in the papers, and its intinded by him (ses wan of the papers,
which always nos a person’s plans befure there made) to live in the
slooms for the rist of his life, devoating himsilf to sittlemint wark
amang the Rooshin Jews.

Mr. Wolley’s masheen broak down aboot a fortnite ago, and the auld
gintleman is like a child widout his favrite toy. He do be wayting ivery
day for the new carbureater to arrive, and manewile he spinds all his
time fooling aboot wid the masheen that isn’t rooning anny longer. Mrs.
Wolley has dridful narviss hidakes, injooced so she told me in
confydunse as mooch by her wurry over Miss Claire as frum anny uther
cause.

As for Miss Claire hersilf. Puir child! She do be that quite and
shrinking in her ways. Theres skurcely a site I’m getting of the child
ixcipt at meal times.

Its not warth intering up the milincully ivints of the sad days, and
shure I’ll be glad indade whin we move back to town in a few weeks now.

There be no troo Nites abownding in this sad and loansum country, for
the Nites are an avarashus lot. Since the news wint abrord that I’m
having me little bit of forchune in the bank, I’ve been pestered wid the
dummed forchune hoonters till I begin to look wid soospischun on ivery
dummed man that spakes to me at all.

Ah, its a sad thing to be ritch in these days, for the lads cum
acoorting wid wan eye on yere pockit and the ither on yere face. Since
museer infarmed me of the greedy hart of Mr. Mulvaney its never a sivil
ward I’ve handed the lad since, and he pretinding to be beside himsilf
wid disthress and begging me ivery day to go wid him to the praste.

“Mr. Mulvaney” ses I, “whin Delia O’Malley is reddy to marry she’ll be
choosing a thrifty lad wid a forchune larger than her own. Do you tak me
for a nigger?” arsks I. “Ivery dummed one of those unforchunt crachures
do be washing after marruge, handing over there hardairned wages to the
cauld-harted goomps theyve been loonyticks enuff to marry. Larry
Mulvaney” ses I, “Its a smart lad ye are, but Delia O’Malley sees throo
yere thricks.”

“Delia, me darlint” ses he, wid such airnestness I’m almost like to
belave him, “I wish” ses he, “ye’d tak yere munney frum the bank and
drap it into the well” ses he. “Its you I want” ses he, “not yer auld
munney.”

“Mr. Mulvaney” ses I cauldly, “Anny wan but an eediot” ses I “cud fish
up a bit of munney put doon in a well.”

To musseer I likewise ixprissed mesilf consarning forchune hoonters in
gineral and furringer in pertickler.

“Museer” ses I “I oonderstand its the custum in yure cuntry for the
wimmen to guv over there bit of a forchune to there worthliss
hoosbunds?”

“May but me share Mumsell Delia” ses he, “Is it not thin a grand custom?
Think sharee” ses he, “Hoo shud be the custoadyun of the joynt wilth of
such a onion if not the hed of the family. Why sharee” ses he, sharee
being Frinch for mavorneen, “It is as it shud be.”

“Museer” ses I, “I may be auld-fashuned, but I shtand here riddy to
state the following facks. I’m a hard warking girl and befure I’d see me
hard airned savings parss into the hands of a good-fur-nothing disiloot
Frinch husbund I’d throw it into purgatry and burn it oop insted. Good
marning museer” ses I “Will you plase ixcuse me this avening.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XXX

                              A WEEK LATER


I got ap this marning at siven. While wiping me face after giving it a
good sousing wid warter, I chanst to look from me winder. I seen the
rane poaring down frum a gray and milincully sky.

“Its a sad day its going to be to-day” ses I to mesilf, little noing the
throoth of the matter. The day itsilf to be shure passed away as yushil.
I warked and cooked. The family et. The house looked dark and gloomy,
and I belave it cheered us all up a bit whin I’m toorning on the lites.

After dinner I planned to rite to Minny, and so was hurrying throo the
washing of me pots and pans in the sink whin I herd me bastemint dure
open and close wid a bang, and ses I to mesilf: “Its that bauld Larry
Mulvaney walking into me kitchin widout the dacinsy aven of nocking.” So
I kipt me contemshus back toorned aven whin the stips cam along throo
the bastemint hall and paused at me kitchin dure. Thin I herd a voyce
spaking me name.

“Delia!”

I toorned aboot, and thin I lit out a turrible yell which I shoot up
quickly be throosting me dishcloth into me open mouth. For there
sthtanding in me kitchin, his long coat dripping wid water, the collar
toorned up about his eers, and his soft filt hat pooled doon over his
eyes was Mr. Harry Dudley himsilf. His eyes looked straynge, and his
face was all oonshavin aboot the chin. He cum tords me quickly and
clapped his hand on me showlder. If I hadent recknissed the lad, shure
I’d be taking him for a thramp.

“Go upstares” ses he, “and bring Claire—Miss Wolley doon. I want” ses
he, “to see her at wanse.”

“Yes sir” ses I trimbling wid excitemint, for he do have the wild look
of a mainyack in his eye.

I rooshed up the stares to Miss Claire’s room, and forgitting to nock
wint in.

“Miss Claire” ses I, me breth cuming in gasps, “w-wud ye be so kind to
step into me kitchin a moment.”

She stud up, looking at me surprysed and bewildyed.

“Whats the matter Delia?” ses she.

“Plase hilp me, Miss Claire” ses I “For God’s sake” ses I gitting
excited, “cum down at wanse.”

“Are you and Larry fighting again” ses she. “What can I do this time?”
ses she, but she let me lead her along doon the stares, and thegither we
cum to the bastemint. Me kitchin dure was open and I belave she seen Mr.
Harry setting there befure shes cum into the room, fur all of a suddint
she guv a turrible start and pulled away frum me arm, trying to go back
oop the stares. At that I called:

“Mr. Harry!” and then he stud up, and she wint slowly tord him. They
stud for a moment looking at aich uther widout spaking a wurd. Then he
tuk his hat aff and put it on the table, and she thried to spake and
cuddent say a ward. I seen her looking wid horror at his dripping
clothes and wite haggud face, and I belave she guv a little sob for so
it sownded. Thin he spake in a saft voyce, looking at her full in the
eyes.

“Claire” ses he “I took a boat back fur home harf an hour after yure
letter and that—that—cursed paper came” ses he. Thin he stapped a bit.
“I’ve cum up strate from the steemer now. I havent been home. Tell me
the trooth” ses he. “Why did you treat me in that way?” ses he.

She did not ansser, but the colur cum back to her pale face and she
raysed up her hed prowdly.

“Am I to belave” ses he “that _you_ wud throw me over for a chap wid
more munney. Claire!” He wint a step tord her, his hands hild out. “For
God’s sake” ses he “tell me that it is all sum horribul mistake.”

She wint back frum him.

“Mr. Dudley” ses she. “I quistshun yure rite to inquire into me affares,
but if you wish me simply to verryfy the annowncemint of me ingagemint
to Mr. Vandybilt, I do so.”

He guv a grone, and set down in the chare, leening forward wid his hands
prissed thegither. Miss Claire stud there cauldly, but she did not look
at Mr. Harry anny more.

Suddintly he throo back his hed and guv a little larf. Thin he got up
and picked up his hat and moved tord the dure.

“Stop!” ses Miss Claire, toorning rownd suddintly, “wait wan minit” ses
she. “Ansser me this Mr. Dudley,” ses she. “What rite have you, an
ingaged man, to spake to me in such a way?”

“What rite have _I_” ses he, looking biterly amoosed “Yes” ses he,
“throo, I _was_ ingaged wance, Miss Wolley. I belave” ses he, “I guv you
me muther’s ring.”

“No!” ses she, and her voyce rung out pashunutly “Not that! I don’t meen
that ingagemint——ef you considered it ever such” ses she, and her voyce
catched oop in her throte which she hild wid her hand, “I mean” ses she,
“yure ingagemint to Una Robbins. You——”

He looked so flabbygasted that she stopped.

“What do you mean?” ses he.

“Oh you know, you know” ses she. “Befure you were gone a fortnite” ses
she “yure ingagemint was annownced.” “My ingage——Claire!” ses he
horsely, and he saized hold of her hand vilintly. “Theres sum misurable
mistake. You’ve been misled, desaved.”

“No, no, no” ses she struggling to free her hands, which he let go
suddintly. “It was annownsed” ses she. “You know it. You know it.”

“Annownced whare?” ses he cauldly.

“In the London Queen.”

“When!”

“I don’t——”

It was thin I spoke up, for I’d taken the paper frum the recipshun hall
the day Miss Claire faynted, intinding to burn the dummed thing. I now
guv it to Mr. Harry. He toorned it over contemshusly. Thin he guv the
paper a long scrootiny. Finally he looked up and fixed his eyes on Miss
Claire. His voyce is very cam and quiet.

“This notiss” ses he, “was published exactly three and a half yeers ago.
If you had aven taken the thrubble to examine the paper you wud have
seen that, aven tho the date is torn aff. Thank you for your faith in
me” ses he. “Who sent this I do not no. Probably my father. And now” ses
he “theres nothing more to say. I hope you will be happy Claire. I don’t
know Vandybilt” ses he, “but—still I hope you will be happy. Good-nite”
ses he, and he wint oot of the dure, widout looking at her again. I seen
her wake oop like wan coming out of a transe. She guv a little moan, and
thin she wint following after him to the hall.

“Harry! Harry!” she called in the dark. I herd him stop short, and thin
her voyce agin. “Oh forgive me” ses she. “I—I—faynted at the time. I
never saw the paper again. My—my hart was broken, for I loved you so—I
love you yet” ses she.

And thin I herd him joomp tord her.

“But yure ingagemint to Vandybilt” ses he horsely.

“Theres _no_ Mr. Vandybilt” ses she, “I—I made it up” ses she, and then
she stopped spaking and crying too for he’s got his arms aboot her and
her lips closed oop wid his.

I toorned away and sobbed. How long they stud I do not know, but it was
a long time whin finully he starts to spake again:

“Claire—my darlint!” ses he, and thin again they are silint.

Then after awile.

“What will we do?” ses she, “we—we cant give aich uther up now.”

He larfed like a boy.

“Give aich uther up” ses he, “Why we belong to aich uther. Now lissen
darlint. I havent a cent to me name. Dad has kept me practicully
pinnyliss lately, but I maniged to borrer enuff to git back here. I’ve
niver dun a stroke of work in me life, but I’ve a good ijjicashun—I’m
yung, strong and willing. I’ve been offered a job out West wid a
stepbruther of me muther’s, and we’ll go there as soon as I can rayse
the munney to take us. Oh my little love” ses he, “I only wish I cud
take you away to-nite and kape you wid me always.”

“Take me—take me Harry” ses she, clinging about his neck, “Let us go
to-nite.”

“I wish we cud” ses he, “but look,” and he drew her into the lite of me
kitchin and toorned out all his pockits and showed her how imty they
was. It was then a brillyunt thort cum into the hed of Delia O’Malley.

“Mr. Harry” ses I interrupting, “will you be excoosing me for putting a
quischun?”

“What is it Delia” ses he kindly.

“How mooch is it ye’re nading?” ses I.

He smiled.

“A few hundred only” ses he. “Jest enuff for our imejit ixpinses. Its
absurd but I havent a red cent” ses he. “I’ll borrer or steel it if I
have to” ses he, trying to larf, the puir lad.

“Mr. Dudley” ses I, “Will ye be doing a puir loan hardwarking girl a
favour?”

“Why certinly” ses he. “What can I do for you?”

“Its siven hundred dollars I’m after having in me stocking. I droo it
oot of the bank oanly a day or two ago, fur the dummed welth do be the
bane of me existunse. Shure I’ll nivver know anny pace of mind so long
as I’m ritch. Mr. Mulvaney do protist that he wishes me munney soonk in
hell, and museer is after saying he loves me better than me bagatell.
Its tisting the lads I’d be doing, and ef ye’ll do me the favour of
accipting me bit of munney——”

“Oh Delia!” ses Miss Claire.

“No, no” ses Mr. Harry at wanse, but she pulled down his face, and
wispered in his eer, and suddintly he toorned and beemed at me.

“Very good! Delia” ses he, “guv me the munney.”

I wint into the china closet and tuk it frum me stocking—thin I brort it
over to Mr. Harry. He hild on to me hand arfter taking it, and his voyce
trimbled a bit.

“Yere a foine woman” ses he, “and its a lucky chap who gets you. Your
bit of munney” ses he, “will be ten times its size whin it reeches you
again.”

“Now Claire darlint” ses he, and he looks at her wid shining eyes, hers
smiling back at him, “Will you go wid me—_to-nite_?”

“Give me five minits” ses she, smiling saftly, “to get me hat and coat.”

“Make it 2” ses he, and let her go.

He put his watch on the table. Arfter a sicond:

“One minit!” ses he, and woches the stares. “One and a harf” ses he, and
joost thin the bastemint dure bell rung, and I let in both museer and
Larry Mulvaney, pushing and ilboing by aich uther.

“Two minits” ses Mr. Harry, and then we herd the dure on top of the
bastemint steps open, and Miss Claire cum steeling down, her coat and
hat in her hand.

“They are all in there rooms” ses she wispering. Then she seen Museer
and Larry, both of them wid there mouths and eyes gaping at Mr. Harry.
He was smiling quarely and he toorned to museer:

“Alfonse!” ses he, “ye’ve arrived in the nich of time. I want you” ses
he “to go back to our place and get riddy the big Pinkard. We’ll be over
in a sicond.”

Museer bowed, but he histated a minit.

“Well?” ses Mr. Harry, “What are you waiting for?”

“Whare is it Museer wishes to go” ses the Frinchman rubbing his hands
narvissly thegither, and giving a look at Miss Claire.

“To New Rosette” ses Mr. Harry smiling, “I know a parson there” ses he,
“will do it in a jiffy. His name’s Hammond” ses he, and then suddintly
he turned tord me. “And by the way Alfonse” ses he, “Puir Delia here
will be ixpicting you back airly. Shes lost her little forchune.”

“Mon Joor! Sacrey! Dam!” ses Museer and looked at me wid his eyes
boolging, then he stamped oot, swaring tarribly in Frinch.

Larry guv me wan look, then he begun to wissel, excusing himsilf a
moment after to Miss Claire.

Mr. Harry hilped Miss Claire on wid her coat, and buttoned it up snug to
her chin. “For” ses he “its cold and raining, and we have quite a trip
to make” ses he.

Thin we all started out frum the house Mr. Dudley almost carrying Miss
Claire over the wet lon and Larry Mulvaney grasping me titely by the
arm.

We got into the Dudley driveway and cum up befure the grate barn. Then
we seen museer at the tillyfone. Hes spaking franticully harf in Frinch
and harf in English. Mr. Harry putrifyes him wid a look and he drapt the
tillyfone and turned sowerly to the big ortermobile, pretinding to start
it. Mr. Harry helped Miss Claire into the tonno, thin the Frinchman
climed in frunt. Mr. Harry foosed a bit wid the masheenery, then he
joomped in beside the Frinchman, and all of a suddint he seesed the weel
frum the Frinchman’s hands, guv a toot to his horn, and wint flying out
of the barn dure, joost as auld Mr. Dudley cum rooning frum the house
waving his hands and showting: “Alfonse! Alfonse!”

He cum into the barn farely choking wid rage. The nixt moment he seen
Larry and me.

“Larry” ses he, and he climed into the uther masheen, standing there.
“Overtake those loonyticks” ses he, “and I’ll make you a ritch man.”

“I will” ses Larry “I kin beet anny Frinchman living.”

I fownd me way home aloan, Larry the crool harted miscreent wid his
avoreeshus hart having obeyed the order of Mr. Dudley. As I cum into me
kitchin I fownd the hole Wolley family, wid the ixcipshun of Mrs. Wolley
and the babby, waiting for me.

“Whare have you been?” shouted Mr. James, and Mr. Wolley guv me a look
fit to kill me.

“Theres no yuse attimting to desave us Delia” ses Mr. John quietly, the
only cam wan of the boonch, “The Dudley charfer tillyfoned us the facks
a minit sense. Now, whares Claire. I presoom” ses he, “they were stopped
in time?”

“Not by a dummed site sir” ses I, gitting turribly inraged wid the site
of the thray strapping men pursooing the puir yung luving harted
crachures. “They’ve got a good start of that desateful Larry Mulvaney,
and Mr. Harry himsilf has got the wheel.”

Mr. Wolley let out a larf of scorn.

“Boys” ses he, “me new carbureater arrived yistiday. We’ll ovetake that
Frinch car in harf an our.”

Wid that they all wint for the barn, got out the car and in there
exsitemint let me climb in wid them also.

Well, we wint spinning at a turrible speed along the auld Boston Post
Road but never a site did we get of the Dudley Frinch car.

The roads was turrible for the stiddy rains of the larst week do be
cutting it up into ditches, and manny a time me hart was in me mouth
feering we’d be going into the gutter. The nite was pitch dark and the
ilictrick lites over harf the road being out wid the lightning.

As we cam whissing along over a wild and loansum cuntry we herd a
straynge sownd, like samewan hollering for hilp, and then we seen a lite
ahed. We roon up beside it and there in the road was anuther masheen. It
was so dark we cud not see the gintleman but whin I herd his voyce I guv
a start.

“Can you tak me as far as New Rosette” ses he. “I’m soaking wet and
cold” ses he, “and me dammed man don’t understand the meckaneesm of this
masheen.”

“Climb in” ses Mr. Wolley gruffly, and he got in at the back.

We started aff again, and by and by we cam at last to New Rosette. We
wint feeling our way arownd the strates, wid the rain beeting doon upon
our lether top and the thoonder and lightning litting out a crack avery
wanse in a wile.

Thin suddintly we cam to a stop. Theres a gas lite burning in the
strate, and setting back a bit from the road on a lumpy bit of lon I
seen what looked like a church and at its very dure indade there stud
the grate Frinch ortermobile of Mr. Dudley. But neyther Miss Claire or
Mr. Harry was inside it. The gintleman guv a gront, and thin ses he:

“Excuse me sir, allow me to get out here.”

Mr. Wolley has turned aboot, and now he leened over the back of the seet
and stuck his face close up to his gest’s. Then at wanse they recknised
aich other. The boys too soospicted the truth at wanse. Mr. Dudley
himself was for joomping clane out of the masheen, but Mr. John opened
the dure wid dignuty, and perlitely hilped him to alite.

We wint all walking up the path to the choorch, and we cud see theres a
bit of lite burning inside. We wint into the holy place, which is all
very still and quiet wid only a bit of dim lite up near the altar, but
under the lite we sor the luvvers, neeling side be side.

Neyther Mr. Dudley or Mr. Wolley spoke a wurd. They joost stud back and
let the praste finish the wurds. Thin I seen two gintleman stip forward
an reckynised thim wid horrow—museer and Larry Mulvaney. The latter seen
us at the same time, and he cum smiling frum eer to eer up to Mr.
Dudley, while the yung cupple stud still wid hands in aich uthers,
looking wid smiling faces at their fathers, joost as if indade they were
arfter ixpicting us.

“Mr. Dudley” ses Larry, “ye’ll not be haulding it aginst me for me
thrick. I boasted” ses he, “that I cud beet the Frinchman, and I did”
ses he, “me frate being lite. It was no brake down ye were arfter being
in on the road” ses he “I simply doomped ye there” ses he “to guv the
yung fokes time. Besides” ses he “Delia there made a hyer bid for me
sarvisses. All the welth in the warld” ses he, “cuddent bye me frum me
pinnyliss darlint.”

Mr. Dudley’s silint, but he kipt his eyes stiddily on the yung fokes,
then suddintly he hild out his hand to Mr. Wolley.

“I’m afrade sir” ses he, “that _love_ has won the race.”

Mr. James was acting strayngely. He wint down the isle in harf a dussen
strydes. He brort his hand down wid a thoomp on Mr. Harry’s back; then
he toorned on his sister and guv her a smacking kiss.

“Claire!” ses he “ye’ve made me insanely happy.”

She smiled, and Mr. Harry guv a larf.

“I oonderstand auld chap” ses he, “and heres a bit of prudint advice. Do
as I did, tak the first steemer which will carry you her-wurds.”

“By jove I will!” ses Mr. James, “I’ll accipt the London corryspondint
job to-morrow.”

By this time the hole family is crowding about the yung fokes, and Mr.
Dudley is after kissing the bride and bridegroom too, and both he and
Mr. Wolley look as ef they’d blow there noses hard, but seeing there in
choorch it might not be perlite.

The teers run down me nose, and wan of thim sploshed on Larry’s hand,
for I seen him look at it a moment. Then he wispered in me eer.

“Come, auld girl” ses he, “hop into the little masheen, which is joost
around the corner. Maybe” ses he, “we can injuice sum sinsible praste to
do us a like favour to-nite.”

And so we wint sneeking out thegither, wid only the Frinchman to obsarve
us, and he wid his mouth gaping open and smiling a bit beside, for Mr.
Harry do be arfter giving him the hole of me forchune to act as witniss.

“But don’t you be arfter wurrying swatehart” ses Larry Mulvaney, “for
tho ye’re puir yersilf now darlint, its a ritch man I’ll be air long,
wid the grand promisses of Mr. Harry.”

“Ah, go wan Larry Moolvaney,” ses I, giving him a squaze of his arm,
“it’s oanly a bit of a trick I’ve been playing you, me wanting to tist
yere love fur me, or me wilth—Shure it was oanly a loan I’m arfter
making Mr. Harry, and it’s hivvy intrust the lad will be arfter paying
on me savings,” ses I.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was silently corrected.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent only
      when a predominant form was found in this book.
    ○ Text that was in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_).







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Diary of Delia, by Winnifred Eaton

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DIARY OF DELIA ***

***** This file should be named 61238-0.txt or 61238-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/1/2/3/61238/

Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, Barry Abrahamsen, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This file was produced from images generously made
available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

